---
title: Sanctions
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-09-24T21:14:05.707Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-24T21:14:01.424Z
---

# Sanctions

### Dayton Peace Agreement

**2024: Schweikert Voted To Impose Sanctions On Individuals That threaten The Security Of Bosnia And Herzegovina And The Implementation Of The Dayton Peace Agreement.** In March 2024, Schweikert voted for , according to Congressional Quarterly, "the bill (HR 4723), as amended, that would direct the U.S. government to impose sanctions on foreign individuals whose actions threaten the security of Bosnia and Herzegovina and would undermine the ongoing implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement. It would require the president to sanction individuals determined responsible for or complicit in actions that would threaten the peace, security, stability or territorial integrity of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which would include actions seeking to undermine democratic processes or institutions. The bill would include asset freezes and travel restrictions as sanctions. Additionally, it would establish criminal penalties for those who violate or seek to violate the sanctions. It also would require sanctions against members of 'illegal parallel institutions' that disrupt the authority of the country\'s sovereign government along with individuals engaged in corruption and individuals and entities aiding those participating in evasion of sanctions or facilitating sanctions. It would allow the president to terminate sanctions if the sanctioned individual did not engage in activities requiring sanctions or has credibly committed to not engage in a sanctioned activity again, upon certification to the congressional foreign issues, House Financial Services and Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs committees. The bill's authority to issue sanctions would expire seven years after its enactment. HR 4723 is the Upholding the Dayton Peace Agreement Through Sanctions Act." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote of 365 to 30. \[House Vote 87, [3/19/24](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2024/roll087.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [3/19/24](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2024/H/87?33); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 4723](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/4723/all-actions)\]

### Foreign Adversaries

**2024: Schweikert Voted To Impose Numerous Sanctions On U.S. Adversaries, To Transfer Assets Seized From Russia Into A Ukraine Support Fund, And To Prohibit U.S. Technology Platforms From Carrying Applications Owned By Foreign Adversaries, Including TikTok.** In April 2024, Schweikert voted for , according to Congressional Quarterly, "the bill, as amended, that would impose numerous sanctions on U.S. adversaries, including Iran and Russia, as well as on terrorist organizations and transnational criminal networks. It would prohibit the release of frozen Russian assets in U.S. financial institutions until the war between Russia and Ukraine is over and Russia has paid for the reconstruction of Ukraine, including humanitarian assistance. It would authorize the transfer of assets seized from Russia or a related 'aggressor state' to a Ukraine Support Fund. It would prohibit technology platforms in the U.S. from carrying any applications that are controlled by foreign adversaries unless they are divested and are no longer under such control. It would require TikTok owner, ByteDance, to divest the app within 270 days of the bill's enactment. It would allow the president to offer a one-time extension of an additional 90 days." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote of 360 to 58. \[House Vote 145, [4/20/24](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2024/roll145.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [4/20/24](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2024/H/145?20); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 8038](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/8038/all-actions)\]

-   **The Bill Connected The Divestiture Of TikTok To \$5 Billion In Funding To Ukraine.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "Lastly, the House voted 360-58 to pass a 'sidecar' package (HR 8038) consisting of some measures related to the foreign aid bills, such as authorizing the seizure of about \$5 billion in frozen Russian assets for distribution to Ukraine and toughening sanctions on Russia, Iran and China." \[Congressional Quarterly, [4/20/24](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-7992683?23)\]

### Human Shields

**2024: Schweikert Voted To Enact Sanctions On Individuals That Use Human Shields.** In April 2024, Schweikert voted for , according to Congressional Quarterly, "the bill that would require the president to submit to Congress annually a list of each foreign person who the president determines is an agent or member of Palestine Islamic Jihad and orders, controls or directs the use of civilians to shield military objectives. It would require the president, within 120 days of receiving a congressional committee request with respect to a foreign person, to determine whether the person meets the criteria for sanctions for the use of civilians as human shields. It would require the president to provide a written justification to the request detailing whether or not the president intends to impose sanctions on the person. It would require the Defense Department, within 120 days of enactment, to submit to Congress a report that includes information on U.S. plans and actions related to the use of human shields by terrorist organizations. The bill would also extend provisions of current law related to sanctions for the use of civilians as shields from Dec. 31, 2023, to Dec. 31, 2030." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote of 419 to 4. \[House Vote 128, [4/16/24](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2024/roll128.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [4/16/24](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2024/H/128?46); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 5917](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/5917/all-actions)\]