---
title: Rob Bresnahan Bought A Secret Helicopter
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-12-08T23:04:45.987Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-12-02T23:06:56.521Z
---

## Overview

Multimillionaire Bresnahan [secretly purchased](https://www.notus.org/congress/rob-bresnahan-private-helicopter) a personal helicopter that retailed for up to $1.5 million. He purchased the helicopter through one of his LLCs. He even [sits](https://transportation.house.gov/subcommittees/subcommittee/?ID=107417) on the aviation subcommittee that regulates the use of planes and helicopters.

## Bresnahan Was Found To Have Purchased A Private Helicopter Worth Up To $1.5 Million

**Bresnahan Purchased A Private Helicopter Worth Between $1 Million And $1.5 Million In Late 2024 Through A Limited Liability Company.** According to NOTUS, “First-term Republican Rep. Rob Bresnahan, a multimillionaire who recently sold control of his family’s electrical contracting company and now represents one of Pennsylvania’s poorest congressional districts, appears to have taken steps to hide one whirling aspect of his wealth: his new personal helicopter. The helicopter — a 2024 Robinson R66 that retails between $1 million and $1.5 million — has not yet appeared in Bresnahan’s personal financial disclosures. But NOTUS was able to determine that the helicopter belongs to Bresnahan by analyzing Federal Aviation Administration records, other congressional financial disclosures and commercial flight data obtained through the website ADS-B Exchange. Those records indicate that Bresnahan purchased the helicopter in late 2024, through a limited liability company named ‘RPB Ventures LLC.’” \[NOTUS, [8/8/25](https://www.notus.org/congress/rob-bresnahan-private-helicopter)\]

-   **Bresnahan Spokesperson Confirmed Bresnahan Purchased The Helicopter While Running For Congress And Intended To Use It For Business Purposes.** According to NOTUS, “When presented with the data, a spokesperson for Bresnahan confirmed the congressman purchased the helicopter last year while he ran for Congress. But the lawmaker appears to have taken steps to conceal the helicopter’s flights, and there’s no record of him ever publicly discussing his helicopter purchase and usage. Searching the comings and goings of Bresnahan’s helicopter on popular flight tracking website FlightAware, users are met with the message: ‘This aircraft (N422RB) is not available for public tracking per request from the owner/operator.’ In a statement to NOTUS, spokesperson Hannah Pope said Bresnahan bought the helicopter with the intention of using the aircraft for business purposes. ‘In emergency situations such as downed power lines or washed-out roads, helicopters play a critical role in inspecting infrastructure and identifying areas in need of urgent repair,’ Pope wrote in a statement. ‘His goal was to work toward a commercial pilot certificate with a rotorcraft-helicopter rating and use the aircraft to provide emergency response and inspection services that help keep seniors warm, hospitals powered, and schools open.’” \[NOTUS, [8/8/25](https://www.notus.org/congress/rob-bresnahan-private-helicopter)\]
-   **Bresnahan Spokesperson Claimed Bresnahan Put His Business Plans On Hold After Getting Elected And That No Taxpayer Or Campaign Funds Were Used To Purchase, Store Or Maintain The Helicopter.** According to NOTUS, “Pope added: ‘Since being elected to Congress, those business plans have been put on hold. No taxpayer or campaign funds were used to purchase the aircraft, and no taxpayer or campaign funds are used to store, operate, or maintain the aircraft.’ Bresnahan has previously disclosed obtaining a helicopter pilot license — including during a congressional hearing about the fatal January collision of an Army Black Hawk helicopter and an American Airlines passenger jet. Bresnahan’s official work in Congress includes oversight of aviation, as he sits on the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure’s Subcommittee on Aviation.” \[NOTUS, [8/8/25](https://www.notus.org/congress/rob-bresnahan-private-helicopter)\]
-   **Bresnahan Spokesperson Refused To Answer Detailed Questions About Bresnahan’s Use Of The Helicopter.** According to NOTUS, “Pope did not answer detailed questions about Bresnahan’s helicopter use, including: For what purpose does he use his helicopter now? Who are his helicopter passengers, if any? Why did he fly his helicopter to the destinations he did? Why does it appear Bresnahan has made efforts to keep his helicopter ownership quiet? And to what degree, if any, is the congressman concerned owning a helicopter will make him seem less in touch with his constituents?” \[NOTUS, [8/8/25](https://www.notus.org/congress/rob-bresnahan-private-helicopter)\]