---
title: Rob Bresnahan Supported School Vouchers
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-12-11T19:14:01.033Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-12-02T22:57:34.993Z
---

## Overview

Bresnahan was a [vocal advocate](https://www.pikecountycourier.com/news/local-news/pa-congressional-candidates-detail-policy-plans-XE3754000) of school choice, saying on the campaign trail in 2024 that he believed [“the dollar should follow the child”](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/rob-bresnahan-hugh-hewitt-show-73024/s-tSJh4TzxUTV?si=e0d79f3b5534462a8577597887c22692&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing) and [campaigning](https://americanjournalnews.com/republican-rob-bresnahan-endorsed-controversial-school-choice-policies/) with outspoken school choice supporter Rep. Burgess Owen. When confronted with this support, however, Bresnahan chose to lie to Pennsylvanians. During a debate with Matt Cartwright in October 2024, Bresnahan [claimed he had never supported school voucher programs](https://pennsylvaniaindependent.com/politics/2024-election-house-representatives-rob-bresnahan-matt-cartwright-school-funding-vouchers/) in spite of his past words and actions. Mere days before the debate the Pike County Courier published an article in which Bresnahan said he [“strongly”](https://www.pikecountycourier.com/news/local-news/pa-congressional-candidates-detail-policy-plans-XE3754000) supported expanding school choice in Pennsylvania.

## Bresnahan Lied About His Support For The Use Of Taxpayer Money For Private And Religious Schools

### While Campaigning for Congress, Bresnahan Said He “Strongly” Supported Expanding School Choice

**October 2024: Bresnahan Said He “Strongly” Supported Expanding School Choice In Pennsylvania.** According to the Pike County Courier, “While I’m running for federal office and cannot change state laws, I strongly support expanding school choice. Every child is unique, and parents should have the freedom to choose an education plan that suits their child’s needs, whether that’s vocational training, traditional classrooms, or homeschooling.” \[Pike County Courier, [10/18/24](https://www.pikecountycourier.com/news/local-news/pa-congressional-candidates-detail-policy-plans-XE3754000)\]

-   **Bresnahan Supported Incentivizing School Choice With Federal Funding.** According to the Pike County Courier, “I believe the U.S. Department of Education can incentivize school choice through federal funding, encouraging states to provide more options for families. Empowering parents to make decisions in the best interest of their children will ensure every student can succeed.” \[Pike County Courier, [10/18/24](https://www.pikecountycourier.com/news/local-news/pa-congressional-candidates-detail-policy-plans-XE3754000)\]

**July 2024: Bresnahan Said He “Personally” Felt That “The Dollar Should Follow The Child.”** According to American Journal News, “Proponents of school choice support public funds following a student to whichever school they attend, including charter or private schools. This is typically achieved through vouchers or tax credits that cover a portion of a private school tuition. In simple terms, tax dollars that would typically go to a public school can instead be given to a private school. In July, Bresnahan told radio host Hugh Hewitt that he supports school choice. ‘School choice is certainly a conversation that we have a lot with people on the ground,’ he said. ‘I personally feel that the dollar should follow the child.’” \[American Journal News, [10/22/24](https://americanjournalnews.com/republican-rob-bresnahan-endorsed-controversial-school-choice-policies/)\]

-   **Bresnahan: “School Choice Is Certainly A Conversation That We Have A Lot With People On The Ground. And You Know, I Personally Feel That The Dollar Should Follow The Child.”** According to an interview Rep. Rob Bresnahan gave on Hugh Hewitt, “BRESNAHAN: School choice is certainly a conversation that we have a lot with people on the ground. And you know, I personally feel that the dollar should follow the child, I mean, I don’t feel that its, parents should be in the classroom to decide what is best for their child moving forward. And if you think about the national education budget, it’s, you know, $60 billion a year. You can turn the news on any single day and see some other county receiving billions and billions and billions of dollars, which is also incredibly frustrating when we could be reinvesting in our next generation of students moving forward.” \[Hugh Hewitt Show, [7/30/24](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/rob-bresnahan-hugh-hewitt-show-73024/s-tSJh4TzxUTV?si=e0d79f3b5534462a8577597887c22692&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing)\] (audio)

**Bresnahan Participated In A Forum With Representative Burgess Owens, Who Openly Advocated For School Choice And Abolishing The Department Of Education.** According to American Journal News, “In July, Bresnahan participated in an education forum with Republican Rep. Burgess Owens of Utah. Owens is an outspoken advocate of school choice and has called for abolishing the Department of Education.” \[American Journal News, [10/22/24](https://americanjournalnews.com/republican-rob-bresnahan-endorsed-controversial-school-choice-policies/)\]

### In A 2024 Debate With Matt Cartwright, Bresnahan Falsely Claimed He Never Supported School Choice

**October 2024: Mere Days After A Pike County Courier Article Was Published In Which Bresnahan Said He “Strongly” Supported School Choice, Bresnahan Denied That He Ever Supported The Policy During A Debate With Matt Cartwright.** According to The Pennsylvania Independent, “In one exchange, Cartwright contrasted his education policy views with Bresnahan’s: ‘I support public education. My opponent supports a voucher system, where you can siphon money out of public education and give it to people who want to use that voucher and send their kids to private school. It only helps people that are already sending their kids to private school. I am absolutely opposed to taking money out of public education to do that.’ Bresnahan responded: ‘I don’t even know what school voucher program you’re referencing or throwing mud at me on. So I’d yield my time to allow you to explain what I’m so far against.’ Cartwright began: ‘Absolutely. School voucher programs, Rob, are things where you take money out of public school and you hand it —‘ ‘No, I’m asking why I’m against it. You just said I’m against something that I’m not,’ Bresnahan interrupted, ignoring Cartwright’s specific claim. ‘You’ll have to explain that,’ Cartwright continued. ‘You’ve said that in public, that you’re for school voucher programs, and that’s for you to explain.’ ‘No, I did not,’ Bresnahan answered.” \[Pennsylvania Independent, [10/23/24](https://pennsylvaniaindependent.com/politics/2024-election-house-representatives-rob-bresnahan-matt-cartwright-school-funding-vouchers/)\]