---
title: Border Security and Enforcement
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-05-04T20:40:08.501Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-05-04T20:40:04.971Z
---

# Border Security and Enforcement

### Summary

-   Anna Paulina Luna has frequently promoted hardline immigration enforcement, calling for immediate border shutdowns, rejection of "catch and release," and automatic deportations of unvetted migrants, especially under a Trump administration ([Fox News, 9/6/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CX9-FXF1-JDPT-T17V-00000-00&context=1519360); [Florida Politics, 1/31/25](https://floridapolitics.com/archives/718629-anna-paulina-luna-seeks-significant-restrictions-on-immigrants-claiming-asylum/)).

-   She has emphasized restricting access to social programs for undocumented immigrants, criticizing states like California for allowing such access and linking illegal immigration to strains on Social Security and Medicaid ([Fox News, 2/10/23](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:67HK-4NF1-JCS1-6000-00000-00&context=1519360)).

-   Luna has pushed for legislation and policy proposals such as mandatory DNA testing to prevent fraudulent family claims at the border and increased penalties for employers exploiting undocumented workers ([Free Press, 6/25/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CBK-4GK1-JBCN-3000-00000-00&context=1519360)).

-   She often portrays undocumented migrants as security risks, asserting that many are "military age males" from China, the Middle East, or South America, and linking immigrants to crime, cartels, and terrorism ([Fox News, 11/12/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6DDK-NX91-JDPT-T501-00000-00&context=1519360)).

-   Luna repeatedly attacks the Biden administration for allegedly undermining border security---citing reversal of Trump-era policies, lack of action against trafficking, and prioritizing politics over enforcement ([Fox Business, 6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C62-7DW1-JDPT-T00Y-00000-00&context=1519360)).

-   Potential vulnerability: Luna's record includes promoting unfounded or exaggerated claims about migrant crime, trafficking, and "rented" children, and she has been cited for immigration misinformation by watchdog groups ([Media Matters, 12/9/22](https://www.mediamatters.org/spanish-language-media/between-congressional-bids-el-americans-anna-paulina-luna-has-been)).

### Policies on Unvetted Migration and Deportations

#### Concerns About Unvetted Migrants

**Luna Promoted Immigration Misinformation And Attacked Media Outlets** According to Media Matters, "As a Youtube personality, Luna attacks mainstream media outlets, claiming they purposely deceive Latino audiences about immigration policies \[...\] Her record promoting immigration misinformation includes baseless claims about children being 'rented' and 'brought here to be trafficked for strictly sexual and or labor purposes.'" \[Media Matters, [12/9/22](https://www.mediamatters.org/spanish-language-media/between-congressional-bids-el-americans-anna-paulina-luna-has-been)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Claimed Majority of Illegals Are** "**Military Age Males**" **From China, Middle East, and South America** In an interview with Fox News, Anna Paulina Luna said, "They are not telling the American people that a majority of the illegals here are actually military age males from China, the Middle East, and parts of South America where they've been affiliated with cartels and terrorist organizations." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox News Jesse Watters Primetime, [11/12/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6DDK-NX91-JDPT-T501-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Claimed Majority Of Illegal Immigrants Were Military Age Males From China, Middle East, And South America** In an interview with FOX News, Anna Paulina Luna said, "They are not telling the American people that a majority of the illegals here are actually military age males from China, the Middle East, and parts of South America where they've been affiliated with cartels and terrorist organizations." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with FOX News (Jesse Watters Primetime), [11/12/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6DDP-H0T1-JBHT-D4YT-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2023: Anna Paulina Luna Linked Illegal Immigration To Strain On Social Security** In an interview with Neil Cavuto, Anna Paulina Luna said, "I would argue that, because of the illegal immigration problem that we're seeing right now, people that have not paid into our system are tapping into those programs. And, ultimately, it's going to be American seniors that suffer." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Cavuto Cavuto, [2/10/23](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:67HK-4NF1-JCS1-6000-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2023: Anna Paulina Luna Called For Examination Of Program Access For Social Services** In an interview with Neil Cavuto, Anna Paulina Luna said, "Well, I think that we need to start looking into who actually has access to these programs. Are people coming here illegally? Are they then tapping into these programs? For example, in the state of California, you have illegal immigrants that are getting full access to the Medicaid system through the state that our taxpayers go into. Is that really fair for the American people?" \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Cavuto Cavuto, [2/10/23](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:67HK-4NF1-JCS1-6000-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Claimed Biden Administration Was** '**Complicit**' **In Ignoring Human Trafficking at Border** In an interview with Fox News Channel, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "open borders are contributing to human trafficking. And unfortunately, we are seeing that this administration is not only complicit in ignoring that, and also the trafficking of women and children, but they're also to from their own words, treating immigrants that are coming here as the help and basically have been caught on record saying that if it weren't for immigrants, who would pick the crops?" \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox News Channel, [5/3/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6BYF-4W41-F15W-H2J4-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Claimed Over 22 Million Undocumented Immigrants In U.S.** In an interview with Fox News, Anna Paulina Luna said, "In fact, currently, there's over 22 million illegals in this country." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with FOX News, [5/24/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C3X-HKN1-F15W-H35P-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Criticized Biden Administration's Framing Of Undocumented Immigrants As Hispanic** In an interview with Fox News, Anna Paulina Luna said, "This administration has intentionally tried to create these illegals coming here as just Hispanic, you have Congresswoman like Debbie Wasserman Schultz saying that if we don't allow these illegals to come here, who's going to pick the crops and the fact is, is that these people that are coming here are not just Hispanic, they're on the terrorist watchlists, and they want to hurt Americans." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with FOX News, [5/24/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C3X-HKN1-F15W-H35P-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Rep. Anna Paulina Luna Criticized Administration's Border Actions As** '**Too Little, Too Late**' In an interview with Fox Business, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "I think that he does need to shut it down, and I think that this is too little, too late. You mentioned earlier on the show, what about the got-aways? What about the people that have come here that are on the known terrorist watch list that they have been releasing into our country?" \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Fox Business, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C62-7DW1-JDPT-T00Y-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**June 2024: Anna Paulina Luna Criticized Biden Administration On Handling Family Border Crossings** According to The Free Press (Tampa, Florida), "'Under the Biden administration, almost two and a half million people have crossed our borders illegally while claiming to be part of a family unit. Many of the children in these 'family units' are victims of trafficking and forced labor,' said Luna." \[Free Press (Tampa, Florida), [6/25/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CBK-4GK1-JBCN-3000-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**June 2024: Anna Paulina Luna Blamed Companies For Exploiting Illegal Migrants** According to The Free Press (Tampa, Florida), "We have greedy companies unlawfully hiring illegals, both adults and children, for cheap labor instead of hiring Americans. Not only are they exploiting these immigrants, but they are not being properly held accountable for it. We need to put an end to this." \[Free Press (Tampa, Florida), [6/25/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CBK-4GK1-JBCN-3000-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Criticized Biden Administration's Border Policies and Called for Security** In an interview with FBN, Mornings with Maria, Anna Paulina Luna said, "They understand the crisis at hand. It has gotten so bad, Maria, that I did hear at one point that Biden was considering invoking executive action on the border. But his internal circle, I believe, told him as they, you know, had anticipated that somehow might affect their polling that that would backfire. But right now, what we're seeing across the nation is this is a nonpartisan issue. People want border security and the fact that it's not just women, it's children that are being raped by these monsters that are coming here. Look, I'm for legal immigration. But when you have people coming here illegally un-vetted and unchecked, you're importing criminals that are hurting our daughters. And it is our obligation as legislators to ensure that women and children are protected. We can't continue down this path." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with FBN, Mornings with Maria, [6/28/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CC9-06F1-JBHT-D2R8-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Cited Migrant Crime As Reason For Border Security And Criticized Biden Administration** In an interview with Fox Business Network, Anna Paulina Luna said, "They understand the crisis at hand. It has gotten so bad, Maria, that I did hear at one point that Biden was considering invoking executive action on the border. But his internal circle, I believe, told him as they, you know, had anticipated that somehow might affect their polling that that would backfire. But right now, what we're seeing across the nation is this is a nonpartisan issue. People want border security and the fact that it's not just women, it's children that are being raped by these monsters that are coming here." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox Business Network (via CQ Transcriptions), [6/28/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CC5-J031-JDPT-T01J-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Warned About Unvetted Arrivals with Nefarious Objectives** In an interview with Fox News, Anna Paulina Luna said, "We have people coming to this country unvetted, unchecked that have nefarious objectives here. And so it's time to play ball." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox News Sunday Morning Futures, [9/8/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CXH-F601-F15W-H2HP-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

#### Advocacy for Automatic Deportations

**1/31/25: Luna Announced New Bill Would End Catch-and-Release and Second Chances For Asylum Lawbreakers** According to Florida Politics, "'If you want asylum in the greatest country on Earth, you follow our rules, period. No more loopholes, no more catch-and-release, no more second chances for lawbreakers. We are taking our border back.'" \[Florida Politics, [1/31/25](https://floridapolitics.com/archives/718629-anna-paulina-luna-seeks-significant-restrictions-on-immigrants-claiming-asylum/)\]

**March 2025: Rep. Anna Paulina Luna Referred Sanctuary City Mayors For Criminal Investigation** According to Free Press (Tampa, Florida), "Republican Rep. Anna Paulina Luna (R-Fla.) escalated her fight against sanctuary city policies Wednesday, announcing she will refer four Democratic mayors to Attorney General Pam Bondi for potential prosecution." \[Free Press (Tampa, Florida), [3/5/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F8S-W5M3-S33N-73Y0-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**March 2025: Luna Accused Mayors Of Violating Federal Law By Aiding Illegal Immigration** According to Free Press (Tampa, Florida), "Luna accused the mayors of violating federal law under Title 8, U.S. Code, Subsection 1324, which criminalizes aiding and abetting illegal immigration." \[Free Press (Tampa, Florida), [3/5/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F8S-W5M3-S33N-73Y0-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**March 2025: Luna Framed Criminal Referrals As Stand For Accountability** According to Free Press (Tampa, Florida), "Luna framed her referrals as a stand for accountability, not malice. 'I do not think you guys are bad people,' she said, 'but if you continue doing what you're doing, you're not going to help anyone---you're going to hurt more people. The American people are tired of it.'" \[Free Press (Tampa, Florida), [3/5/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F8S-W5M3-S33N-73Y0-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**Luna Co-Sponsored Border Wall And COVID-19 Military Reintegration Bills** According to Tampa Bay Times, "So far, she's co-sponsored a bill to allow a wall to be built along the U.S.-Mexico border, and one reinstating anyone discharged from the military for refusing to get a COVID-19 vaccine." \[Tampa Bay Times, [2/14/23](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:67KX-D231-DYTM-N14V-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2024: Anna Paulina Luna Questioned Immigration Expert On Family Fraud And Child Trafficking** According to The Free Press (Tampa, Florida), "Republican Florida Rep. Anna Paulina Luna criticized an immigration expert testifying before the House Oversight Committee Wednesday over whether children are trafficked into the U.S. by people falsely claiming to be their parents. Paulina Luna played a video showing a man who had crossed the border illegally with two children, saying his wife abandoned them while questioning David Bier, associate director of immigration studies at the Cato Institute." \[Free Press (Tampa, Florida), [1/17/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6B4F-YJV1-DXVP-T4DG-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**Anna Paulina Luna Cited Federal Findings On Migrant Family Fraud In House Hearing, January 2024** According to The Free Press (Tampa, Florida), "A federal pilot program previously found that 16 out of 84 families were 'fraudulent,' while a separate program reported that 79 out of 522 migrant families were fraudulent." \[Free Press (Tampa, Florida), [1/17/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6B4F-YJV1-DXVP-T4DG-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**Anna Paulina Luna Challenged Credibility Of Witness On Parental Relationships, January 2024** According to The Free Press (Tampa, Florida), 'Paulina Luna said he has "no idea" whether or not the parents were related to the children, noting an underground child trafficking network in the agriculture industry in the U.S., while Bier said he does know that the families aren't fraudulent. "Really, are you psychic? Have you won the lotto, Mr. Bier, I don't think you have," she said.' \[Free Press (Tampa, Florida), [1/17/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6B4F-YJV1-DXVP-T4DG-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Rejected Characterization of Border Security as Xenophobic or Racist** In an interview with Fox News Channel, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "it is not racist to want border security and it's certainly not xenophobic. In fact, it's probably one of the most responsible and also humanitarian things you can do." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox News Channel, [5/3/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6BYF-4W41-F15W-H2J4-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Called For Immediate Shutdown Of The Border** In an interview with Neil Cavuto, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "We need to shut the border now, immediately. I would even say that even one person here illegally is too much. Shut it down." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Neil Cavuto, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C5X-Y2H1-F072-X001-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Reiterated The Need To** '**Shut It Down**' **Regarding The Border** In an interview with Neil Cavuto, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "If it were up to me, I'd shut it down. I think that he does need to shut it down, and I think that this is too little, too late." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Neil Cavuto, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C5X-Y2H1-F072-X001-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Rep. Anna Paulina Luna Asserted Support For Immediate Border Shutdown** In an interview with Fox Business, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "We need to shut the border now, immediately. I would even say that even one person here illegally is too much. Shut it down." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Fox Business, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C62-7DW1-JDPT-T00Y-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**June 2024: Anna Paulina Luna Introduced The Family Reunification Act And The Illegal Labor Accountability Act** According to The Free Press (Tampa, Florida), "Congresswoman Anna Paulina Luna of Florida's 13th District has introduced a legislative package that aims to combat these concerning practices. \[...\] Rep. Luna has stepped up to introduce two crucial bills: the Family Reunification Act and the Illegal Labor Accountability Act." \[Free Press (Tampa, Florida), [6/25/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CBK-4GK1-JBCN-3000-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**June 2024: Anna Paulina Luna Sought Mandatory DNA Testing For Familial Claims At The Border** According to The Free Press (Tampa, Florida), "This legislation mandates DNA testing for individuals claiming a familial connection with children entering the country, ensuring that only legitimate family members are reunited." \[Free Press (Tampa, Florida), [6/25/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CBK-4GK1-JBCN-3000-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**June 2024: Anna Paulina Luna Aimed To Triple Civil Penalties For Exploitative Employers Through Legislation** According to The Free Press (Tampa, Florida), "Rep. Luna has also introduced the Illegal Labor Accountability Act, which seeks to combat the unlawful hiring of illegal migrants for exploitation. This legislation aims to triple the civil penalties for employers who engage in the exploitation of undocumented workers." \[Free Press (Tampa, Florida), [6/25/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CBK-4GK1-JBCN-3000-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Advocated for Immediate Deportations Upon Trump Taking Office** In an interview with Fox News, Anna Paulina Luna said, "In my opinion, we need to shut it down, get our legal immigration in check, and that starts with automatic deportations the minute Trump takes office, for the people that are coming here, unvetted and unchecked." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox News (Laura Ingraham), [9/6/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CX9-FXF1-JDPT-T17V-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**September 2024: Anna Paulina Luna Said She Advocated Automatic Deportations For Unvetted Migrants** According to Fox News INGRAHAM ANGLE, Anna Paulina Luna stated, "So, in my opinion, we need to shut it down, get our legal immigration in check, and that starts with automatic deportations the minute Trump takes office, for the people that are coming here, unvetted and unchecked." \[Fox News INGRAHAM ANGLE, [9/6/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CX3-XGD1-JCS1-6301-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Called For Automatic Deportations Of Unvetted Migrants** In an interview with Fox News, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "We need to shut it down, get our legal immigration in check, and that starts with automatic deportations the minute Trump takes office, for the people that are coming here, unvetted and unchecked." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox News (Laura Ingraham), [9/6/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CXM-81N1-DY0W-40CX-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**September 2024: Anna Paulina Luna Criticized Use Of Sponsors For Migrants And Called For Automatic Deportations** According to The Free Press (Tampa, Florida), "Luna also expressed concerns about the administration's handling of the immigration crisis, criticizing the use of sponsors for migrants. 'Some sponsors aren't acting with the right intentions, and we have no idea if they're using stolen Social Security numbers,' she said. 'We need to get illegal immigration in check, starting with automatic deportations the minute Trump takes office for those coming here unvetted and unchecked.'" \[Free Press (Tampa, Florida), [9/7/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CXC-YB51-DXVP-T2R6-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

#### Criticism of Lax Border Policies

**2025: Anna Paulina Luna Indicated Expectation Of Further Border Policy Changes Under Trump Administration** In an interview with Fox News' Jesse Watters, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "So we're looking forward to more surprises, specifically on the border." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox News' Jesse Watters Primetime, [1/17/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6DY0-H7H3-RRS3-D00N-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**May 2023: Luna Attributed Migrant Teen's Risk To Federal Immigration Policies** According to Tampa Bay Times, '"These migrant children would not be here and would not be at risk if we did not have the policies in place that we currently do," Luna said. "And that is why it's so important for people to realize that poor legislation does have consequences."' \[Tampa Bay Times, [5/13/23](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6879-WDJ1-DYTM-N01J-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Criticized Biden Administration For Actions Undermining Border Security** In an interview with Neil Cavuto, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "We know that Biden took over 300 actions that really undermined our own border security measures." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Neil Cavuto, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C5X-Y2H1-F072-X001-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Rep. Anna Paulina Luna Claimed Biden Administration Undermined Border Security With Over 300 Actions** In an interview with Fox Business, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "We know that Biden took over 300 actions that really undermined our own border security measures." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Fox Business, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C62-7DW1-JDPT-T00Y-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Supported Legal Immigration While Criticizing Unchecked Illegal Immigration** In an interview with Fox Business Network, Anna Paulina Luna said, "Look, I'm for legal immigration. But when you have people coming here illegally un-vetted and unchecked, you're importing criminals that are hurting our daughters. And it is our obligation as legislators to ensure that women and children are protected. We can't continue down this path." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox Business Network (via CQ Transcriptions), [6/28/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CC5-J031-JDPT-T01J-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2019: Anna Paulina Luna Questioned Kamala Harris On Border Children** In an interview with State of the Union, Sen. Laphonza Butler reflected on a 2019 airport encounter, as captured on video, where Anna Paulina Luna approached then-Senator Kamala Harris and said, "I want to know about the children that you (OFF-MIKE) at the border right now. (OFF-MIKE) real quick?" \[Interview - Sen. Laphonza Butler with State of the Union (CNN), [8/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:56J8-V981-F06P-23RW-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2019: Anna Paulina Luna Stated Opposition To Harris' Border Policies In Public Confrontation** In an interview with State of the Union, Sen. Laphonza Butler replayed a 2019 video of Anna Paulina Luna saying to Harris, "You're getting behind me. You're saying that you're fighting for women. No, I'm not going to back off. Don't touch me. Don't touch me. \[...\] I'm asking her. She's saying that she supports..." \[Interview - Sen. Laphonza Butler with State of the Union (CNN), [8/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:56J8-V981-F06P-23RW-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2019: Anna Paulina Luna Confronted Kamala Harris At Airport Over Border Policy** In an interview with CNN, Senator Laphonza Butler discussed an incident from 2019 in which Anna Paulina Luna approached then-Senator Kamala Harris at an airport and questioned her about children at the border, saying, "I want to know about the children that you (OFF-MIKE) at the border right now \[...\] You're getting behind me. You're saying that you're fighting for women. No, I'm not going to back off. Don't touch me. Don't touch me." \[Interview - Sen. Laphonza Butler with CNN (State of the Union), [8/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CN5-8SP1-JBHT-D2B7-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2019: Laphonza Butler Characterized Anna Paulina Luna As** "**Aggressively**" **Wanting To Make A Point On Border Issue** In an interview with CNN, Senator Laphonza Butler described the 2019 airport incident, saying, "That was an occasion where the then-United States Senator Kamala Harris was actually trying to have a conversation with other people in the airport and Representative Luna aggressively wanted to make her point. Here we are." \[Interview - Sen. Laphonza Butler with CNN (State of the Union), [8/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CN5-8SP1-JBHT-D2B7-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2019: Anna Paulina Luna Confronted Then-Senator Kamala Harris About Border Policy** In an interview with CNN STATE OF THE UNION, video resurfaced of Anna Paulina Luna at an airport in 2019 confronting then-Senator Kamala Harris, where Luna said, "I want to know about the children that you \[...\] at the border right now. (OFF-MIKE) real quick? \[...\] You're getting behind me. You're saying that you're fighting for women. No, I'm not going to back off. Don't touch me. Don't touch me. \[...\] I'm asking her. She's saying that she supports..." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with CNN STATE OF THE UNION, [8/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CMX-MJY1-JCS1-60KV-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Laphonza Butler Characterized Anna Paulina Luna's Approach In Airport Encounter As Aggressive** In an interview with CNN STATE OF THE UNION, Senator Laphonza Butler reflected on the 2019 airport exchange, stating, "That was an occasion where the then-United States Senator Kamala Harris was actually trying to have a conversation with other people in the airport and Representative Luna aggressively wanted to make her point. Here we are." \[Interview - Laphonza Butler with CNN STATE OF THE UNION, [8/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CMX-MJY1-JCS1-60KV-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Criticized Kamala Harris's Immigration Record And Predicted Worsening Border Policy** In an interview with Fox Business, Anna Paulina Luna said, "I would argue that it would be worse, and I say that because she's not one to do anything. She's been in charge of the border, regardless of what the administration and the mainstream media has tried to say and bury her record on that. But I would also argue that, you know, showing how she has been extremely leftist, showing that she's absolutely willing to close detention facilities, and also to not vet or check any of these people coming here." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox Business, [8/16/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CRV-31J1-F15W-H3TK-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Accused Democrats Of Complicity In Violence Against Women At The Border** In an interview with Fox Business, Anna Paulina Luna said, "I don't want to hear anything about, you know, Republicans being anti-woman because they are complicit in women being raped and they're doing nothing about it, and it is by criminals coming here illegally." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox Business, [8/16/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6CS4-W091-DY0W-4106-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2025: Anna Paulina Luna Criticized Martha's Vineyard Response To Migrant Relocation** In an interview with Fox News' Jesse Watters, Anna Paulina Luna said, "these people, these they/thems, they're all inclined to do this until, you know you actually move these illegals to someplace like Martha's Vineyard. And then we all know how that ended." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox News' Jesse Watters Primetime, [4/21/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6FN6-JC53-RT1P-44FS-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2020: Makki Accused Luna Of Supporting Amnesty For Undocumented Immigrants** According to Tampa Bay Times, "In a new campaign ad, Makki accuses another District 13 primary opponent, Anna Paulina Luna, of supporting amnesty for undocumented immigrants because she suggested Congress should consider a solution for people who were brought to the country as children through non-legal methods." \[Tampa Bay Times, [7/28/20](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:60FX-0CB1-DYTM-N3TK-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2020: Luna Stated Congress Should Consider Solutions For Undocumented Immigrants Brought As Children** According to Tampa Bay Times, "she [Anna Paulina Luna](#ic0sl5bxyn03) suggested Congress should consider a solution for people who were brought to the country as children through non-legal methods." \[Tampa Bay Times, [7/28/20](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:60FX-0CB1-DYTM-N3TK-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**February 2023: Luna Criticized Biden Administration On Unaccompanied Minors And Human Trafficking** According to Fox News, "...one of the most alarming things I heard today and I actually addressed it in my speech but Representative Biggs shared that because of this current immigration crisis, under the Biden administration that over 300,000, unaccompanied minors have come through our borders; over 43,000 and have been lost within the system. Think about that, 43,000 children. And these children are largely being trafficked, whether it's for sexual purposes, labor purposes. That is a huge fault, I think on behalf of this administration, but more importantly, it's something that we need to show the American people because it's modern-day slavery." \[Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 3:00 PM EST, [2/7/23](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:67H3-H811-F072-X3NY-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**February 2023: Luna Cited State Department Reports On Trafficking Through Mexico** According to Fox News, "This is not a made-up conspiracy theory. The State Department puts out a report every single year talking about the trafficking statistics. Mexico is basically a pathway and a funnel through South America. The cartels exploit children, it's happening every day. It's happening around us." \[Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 3:00 PM EST, [2/7/23](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:67H3-H811-F072-X3NY-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**February 2023: Luna Argued For Separation Of Children At Border On Human Trafficking Grounds** According to Fox News, "...as someone who's studied this topic extensively and considers themselves a human rights activist, I would say that we still need to be separating these children from people that are claiming to be their parents, because of the fact that we know for a fact now that children are largely being exploited to get through the asylum process." \[Fox News THE STORY WITH MARTHA MACCALLUM 3:00 PM EST, [2/7/23](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:67H3-H811-F072-X3NY-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

### Coordination with Executive Branch on Border Issues

#### Collaboration with Trump Administration Policies

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Supported Trump Administration Executive Orders on Day One** In an interview with Fox News, Anna Paulina Luna said, "Well, I hope he has a stack of executive orders to start following through on his campaign promises. You know, Jesse, we've been trying to get something on immigration and border security done for the last two years, at least since I have been serving, and frankly, it's been the Washington bureaucrats and honestly, members of Congress that have been blocking that." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox News Jesse Watters Primetime, [11/12/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6DDK-NX91-JDPT-T501-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Supported Trump Administration Using Executive Orders For Immigration And Border Security** In an interview with FOX News, Anna Paulina Luna said, "I hope he has a stack of executive orders to start following through on his campaign promises. You know, Jesse, we've been trying to get something on immigration and border security done for the last two years, at least since I have been serving, and frankly, it's been the Washington bureaucrats and honestly, members of Congress that have been blocking that." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with FOX News (Jesse Watters Primetime), [11/12/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6DDP-H0T1-JBHT-D4YT-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Claimed Biden Administration Should Have Maintained Trump-Era Border Policies** In an interview with Fox Business, Anna Paulina Luna said, "This should have been something that they should have really just left President Trump's policies in place, and you wouldn't see these numbers." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox Business (Neil Cavuto), [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C65-3361-DY0W-4074-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Claimed Trump And Republicans Were** '**Right**' **On Border Security** In an interview with Neil Cavuto, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "I think that this administration knows that Trump was right on border security. He knows that Republicans in the Senate and the House were right on border security. So I welcome them to do this, but I think that they're going to have a lot of egg on their face, and the American people know that." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Neil Cavuto, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C5X-Y2H1-F072-X001-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Refuted That Trump Wanted To Wait On Border Actions Until After The Election** In an interview with Neil Cavuto, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "No, I don't think that President Trump wanted to wait. In fact, whenever I have had conversations, he said, it's a shame what's happening on the border security." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Neil Cavuto, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C5X-Y2H1-F072-X001-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Criticized Politicization Of Border Security** In an interview with Neil Cavuto, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "When we're talking about border security, this should have never been something that they should have campaigned on. This should have been something that they should have really just left President Trump's policies in place, and you wouldn't see these numbers." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Neil Cavuto, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C5X-Y2H1-F072-X001-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Rep. Anna Paulina Luna Claimed Trump And Congressional Republicans Were Right On Border Security** In an interview with Fox Business, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "I think that this administration knows that Trump was right on border security. He knows that Republicans in the Senate and the House were right on border security. So I welcome them to do this, but I think that they're going to have a lot of egg on their face, and the American people know that." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Fox Business, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C62-7DW1-JDPT-T00Y-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Rep. Anna Paulina Luna Denied Claim That President Trump Wanted To Wait On Border Reform** In an interview with Fox Business, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "No, I don't think that President Trump wanted to wait. In fact, whenever I have had conversations, he said, it's a shame what's happening on the border security." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Fox Business, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C62-7DW1-JDPT-T00Y-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

#### Negotiations to Attach Border Security to Other Legislation

**2024: Rep. Anna Paulina Luna Called For Immediate Executive Action On Border Security By President Trump** In an interview with Fox News, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "So, I'm hoping that day one, President Trump can get in, lock it down via executive order, and really forces Congress to do the right thing. And that's stand up for the American people, secure our border, and do exactly what we promised we would do on the campaign trails, back President Trump's agenda." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Fox News, [11/22/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6DGR-CP31-JDPT-T28P-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Voiced Concern About Senate Blocking Border Security Without Mass Amnesty** In an interview with Fox News, Anna Paulina Luna said, "I do have some concerns in the Senate that they will potentially block anything in regards to border security if we don't push mass amnesty, which would also be very wrong." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox News, [11/22/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6DH2-6601-DY0W-40HP-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Supported Border Security And Trump Agenda Implementation On Day One** In an interview with Fox News, Anna Paulina Luna said, "I'm hoping that day one, President Trump can get in, lock it down via executive order, and really forces Congress to do the right thing. And that's stand up for the American people, secure our border, and do exactly what we promised we would do on the campaign trails, back President Trump's agenda." \[Interview - Anna Paulina Luna with Fox News, [11/22/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6DH2-6601-DY0W-40HP-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Claimed President Biden Delayed Action On Border Security For Political Reasons** In an interview with Neil Cavuto, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "I heard in off-record conversation that the president knew that this was an issue months ago and that they were actually concerned on polling. And so he was considering this back then, was actually encouraged by the speaker of the House, of which he still took no action." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Neil Cavuto, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C5X-Y2H1-F072-X001-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Anna Paulina Luna Highlighted Republican Passage Of H.R.2 On Border Security** In an interview with Neil Cavuto, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "You know, Neil, that we passed H.R.2 months ago, and yet the Senate sat on this." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Neil Cavuto, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C5X-Y2H1-F072-X001-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

#### Interactions with Congressional Leadership

**March 2025: House Oversight Committee, Including Luna, Probed Sanctuary City Policies** According to Free Press (Tampa, Florida), "The hearing, part of broader probes launched by the Oversight Committee in January into sanctuary policies in Boston, Denver, Chicago, and New York City, spotlighted tensions between local governance and federal immigration enforcement." \[Free Press (Tampa, Florida), [3/5/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F8S-W5M3-S33N-73Y0-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**May 2023: Luna Assigned Responsibility For Migrant Shelter Oversight To Federal Government** According to Tampa Bay Times, 'When asked if the state should regulate shelters with migrant children, Scott and Luna placed the responsibility instead on the federal government.' \[Tampa Bay Times, [5/13/23](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6879-WDJ1-DYTM-N01J-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2024: Rep. Anna Paulina Luna Stated House Passed H.R.2 On Border Security, Criticized Senate Inaction** In an interview with Fox Business, Rep. Anna Paulina Luna said, "You know, Neil, that we passed H.R.2 months ago, and yet the Senate sat on this." \[Interview - Rep. Anna Paulina Luna with Fox Business, [6/4/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6C62-7DW1-JDPT-T00Y-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**2020: Luna Supported Trump's Immigration Proposals** According to Tampa Bay Times, "Luna, who also supports Trump's immigration proposals, has the backing of several individuals in the president's orbit, including U.S. Rep. Matt Gaetz." \[Tampa Bay Times, [7/28/20](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:60FX-0CB1-DYTM-N3TK-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**April 2024: Luna Confirmed Discussions On Attaching Border Security Bill To Ukraine Funding** According to CQ Transcriptions, Luna said, "I actually just left a meeting with the speaker and some of my conservative colleagues that might be a no on this rule. But what I am hearing and what I'm hearing negotiations on, Neil, is to potentially attach H.R.2, which, as you know, was that very strong border security bill, to potentially Ukraine. I don't know where the votes are out on that, but that that is something that's in discussion currently." \[CQ Transcriptions, [4/16/24](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6BTK-NFY1-JDPT-T014-00000-00&context=1519360)\]