---
title: Karrin Taylor Robson On Abortion
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-12-21T16:45:41.188Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-12-09T17:04:16.811Z
---

## Overview

Taylor Robson was an anti-abortion extremist who supported extreme abortion bans and spread abortion misinformation. 

Taylor Robson said she believed [“life begins at conception”](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/karrin-taylor-robson-ktar-news-923-with-barry-markson-62422/s-ND8GFg6EDjW?si=7fa964f548aa45a691444d268cfcac95&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing) and supported Texas’ six-week abortion ban, saying it protected against “[the horrors of abortion.”](https://web.archive.org/web/20220615035009/https:/karrinforarizona.com/a-victory-for-life-karrin-taylor-robson-issues-statement-on-heartbeat-act/) She also celebrated the Supreme Court overturning Roe v. Wade, even describing herself as [“thrilled,”](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/karrin-taylor-robson-mike-broomhead-show-63022/s-DfLQSSwj21G?si=89943b02ad9843ceab182079e63d828e&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing) and [supported anti-abortion crisis pregnancy centers.](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/karrin-taylor-robson-ktar-news-923-with-barry-markson-62422/s-ND8GFg6EDjW?si=7fa964f548aa45a691444d268cfcac95&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing)

Taylor Robson [supported Arizona’s 2022 abortion](https://www.azcentral.com/story/opinion/op-ed/laurieroberts/2022/06/28/karrin-taylor-robson-position-abortion-law-exceptions-rape/7751696001/) ban that had no exceptions for rape or incest, but according to Taylor Robson, such exceptions were unnecessary. She implied [abortion was violent](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/karrin-taylor-robson-ktar-news-923-with-barry-markson-62422/s-ND8GFg6EDjW?si=7fa964f548aa45a691444d268cfcac95&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing), and claimed pregnancies resulting from rape were [“extremely rare,”](https://www.azcentral.com/story/opinion/op-ed/laurieroberts/2022/06/28/karrin-taylor-robson-position-abortion-law-exceptions-rape/7751696001/) and occurred in [“less than 2 percent of those situations.”](https://www.azcentral.com/story/opinion/op-ed/laurieroberts/2022/06/28/karrin-taylor-robson-position-abortion-law-exceptions-rape/7751696001/) 

## Taylor Robson Lauded The Overturning Of Roe V. Wade And Supported Texas’ Extreme Six-Week Abortion Ban

### Taylor Robson Was “Thrilled” Over The Overturning Of Roe V. Wade

**2022: Taylor** **Robson Said She Was “Thrilled” The Supreme Court Overturned Roe V. Wade And Said She Would “Always” Be Anti-Abortion.** According to Taylor Robson on the Mike Broomhead Show, “Well as you know, and as I've said many times, I am pro-life, I always have been. I always will be. And, you know, a lot has transpired in 50 years. And you know, we've learned a lot. That's one of the reasons why I think, you know, the legislation and laws you're seeing around this country are further protecting the unborn in particular. What we now know is that they feel pain at much earlier ages in their in the womb. And so I think we have to take that into consideration. We have to take, you know, all sorts of considerations into account. You know, I've also said that we have to be mindful of the women and take care of the women, care as much about the women walking into a clinic as we do about her unborn child. We must do that. I think times call for that. But I am thrilled with the Supreme Court's ruling because it now is where it belongs. And that is in the hands of the people and elected democracy, not unelected judges.” \[Karrin Taylor Robson – Mike Broomhead Show, [6/30/22](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/karrin-taylor-robson-mike-broomhead-show-63022/s-DfLQSSwj21G?si=89943b02ad9843ceab182079e63d828e&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing)\] (AUDIO) 

### Taylor Robson Supported Texas’ Extreme Six-Week Abortion Ban, Saying It Protected Against The “Horrors Of Abortion”

**2021: Taylor** **Robson Called Texas’ Six-Week Abortion Ban “A Huge Step Forward In Protecting Women And Children From The Horrors Of Abortion.”** According to a press release from Taylor Robson’s campaign, “‘The Heartbeat Act that now becomes law in Texas represents a huge step forward in protecting women and children from the horrors of abortion. This is a victory for life. I’m proud to have been a decades-long member of the pro-life movement, which has steadily and ceaselessly worked toward this historic day. Credit also goes to Gov. Abbott, Texas lawmakers and perhaps most of all President Trump, who nominated the conservative justices who made this achievement possible. ‘Our focus now must turn to beating back opposition by the radical Left. Having lost in the legislative and judicial arenas, Joe Biden, Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer seek other ways to undermine the rule of law. They may try to expand and pack the U.S. Supreme Court, as well as game the U.S. Senate by granting statehood to Washington, D.C. and Puerto Rico. Just this morning, Biden warned he will use the administrative power of the White House to undermine Texas law. ‘Now is not the time to celebrate and rest easy; this fight is just beginning.’” \[Press Release – Karrin Taylor Robson For Governor, Archived [6/15/22](https://web.archive.org/web/20220615035009/https:/karrinforarizona.com/a-victory-for-life-karrin-taylor-robson-issues-statement-on-heartbeat-act/)\]

## Taylor Robson Was An Anti-Abortion Extremist, Spread Abortion Misinformation, And Dismissed The Need For Abortion Exceptions

### Taylor Robson Supported Anti-Abortion Crisis Pregnancy Centers And Claimed “Life Begins At Conception”

**2022: Taylor** **Robson Said She Planned To Provide “Additional Support For Crisis Pregnancy Centers” And Said She Believed “Life Begins At Conception.”** According to Robson on the KTAR News 92.3, “And I believe when I'm governor, every woman will know that she has non-violent alternatives for her baby if she's in crisis. And that includes providing additional support for crisis pregnancy centers and postpartum care for mothers. We just have to let them know that that that abortion is not the right choice. We have to let them know that we will support their non-violent choice to have them and keep their babies. \[…\] You know, I believe life begins at conception and quite frankly, it's, you know, the instance of a pregnancies occurring in violent situations are extremely rare. And in fact, it's estimated about, less than two percent of those situations to a pregnancy occur. And so you know, again, I would go back to making sure that every woman, regardless of her age or circumstance, understands that there are non-violent, non-violent ways to non-violent choices available to them.” \[Karrin Taylor Robson – KTAR News 92.3 With Barry Markson, [6/24/22](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/karrin-taylor-robson-ktar-news-923-with-barry-markson-62422/s-ND8GFg6EDjW?si=7fa964f548aa45a691444d268cfcac95&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing)\] (AUDIO)

### Taylor Robson Downplayed Pregnancies Resulting From Rape, Saying They Were “Extremely Rare” And Made Abortion Ban Exceptions Unnecessary

#### Taylor Robson Dismissed The Need For Abortion Ban Exceptions For Rape And Incest, Claiming “Pregnancies Occurring In Violent Situations Are Extremely Rare”

**Laurie Roberts Opinion: Taylor** **Robson Dismissed The Need For Abortion Ban Exceptions For Rape And Incest, Claiming “Pregnancies Occurring In Violent Situations Are Extremely Rare” And Occur In “Less Than 2 Percent Of Those Situations.”** According to a Laurie Roberts opinion from AZ Central, “‘Let’s say there’s a 14-year-old girl who’s being raped by her stepfather and is now pregnant,’ Markson asked. ‘In an Arizona where abortion is generally illegal, would that be an exception where an abortion is permitted in that circumstance?’ Here is how Taylor Robson responded: ‘I believe that life begins at conception and, quite frankly, the instance of pregnancies occurring in violent situations are extremely rare. In fact, it’s estimated that in less than 2% of those situations did pregnancy occur. I would go back to making sure that every woman, regardless of their age or circumstance, knows that there are non-violent choices available to them.’” \[Laurie Roberts Opinion – AZ Central, [6/28/22](https://www.azcentral.com/story/opinion/op-ed/laurieroberts/2022/06/28/karrin-taylor-robson-position-abortion-law-exceptions-rape/7751696001/)\]

-   **Laurie Roberts Opinion: Taylor** **Robson Referenced A 2004 Guttmacher Institute Survey, But A 1996 American Journal Of Obstetrics And Gynecology Study Said The Odds Were 5 Percent, And The CDC Said 3 Million American Women Would Experience A Rape-Related Pregnancy.** According to a Laurie Roberts opinion from AZ Central, “Taylor Robson was relying on a 2004 survey by Guttmacher Institute, which concluded that just 1% of abortions are the result of rape, and less than half a percent are the result of incest. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 3 million women in this country will experience a rape-related pregnancy in their lifetime. A 1996 study from the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology said a woman who is raped has a 5% chance of becoming pregnant.” \[Laurie Roberts Opinion – AZ Central, [6/28/22](https://www.azcentral.com/story/opinion/op-ed/laurieroberts/2022/06/28/karrin-taylor-robson-position-abortion-law-exceptions-rape/7751696001/)\]

**2022: Taylor** **Robson Downplayed Pregnancies Occurring From Rape Or Incest, And Implied That Abortion Was Violent And Wanted To Offer “Non-Violent” Solutions To Unwanted Pregnancies.** According to Taylor Robson on the KTAR News 92.3, “You know, I believe life begins at conception and quite frankly, it's, you know, the instance of a pregnancies occurring in violent situations are extremely rare. And in fact, it's estimated about, less than two percent of those situations to a pregnancy occur. And so you know, again, I would go back to making sure that every woman, regardless of her age or circumstance, understands that there are non-violent, non-violent ways to non-violent choices available to them.” \[Karrin Taylor Robson – KTAR News 92.3 With Barry Markson, [6/24/22](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/karrin-taylor-robson-ktar-news-923-with-barry-markson-62422/s-ND8GFg6EDjW?si=7fa964f548aa45a691444d268cfcac95&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing)\] (AUDIO)

#### Taylor Robson Supported Arizona’s 2022 Abortion Ban, Which Made No Exceptions For Rape And Incest

**Laurie Roberts Opinion: Taylor** **Robson Supported Arizona’s 2022 Abortion Ban, Which Made No Exceptions For Rape And Incest.** According to a Laurie Roberts opinion from AZ Central, “In the wake of last week's Supreme Court ruling throwing the issue to states, Taylor Robson sounded like a rape exemption might not be in the cards on her watch. ‘Let me be clear: I am a practicing Catholic and believe life begins at conception. ... The abortion prohibition approved by Republican legislators and signed into law by Gov. Ducey this year is appropriate.’ That law -- which apparently will be negated by the pre-Roe ban -- also makes no exception for victims of rape and incest.” \[Laurie Roberts Opinion – AZ Central, [6/28/22](https://www.azcentral.com/story/opinion/op-ed/laurieroberts/2022/06/28/karrin-taylor-robson-position-abortion-law-exceptions-rape/7751696001/)\]