---
title: FAA
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-09-24T22:08:15.266Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-24T22:08:11.117Z
---

# FAA

### 2024 Reauthorization

**2024: Schweikert Voted For The 2024 FAA Reauthorization That Required Airlines To Issue Refunds For Delayed And Canceled Flights And Added 10 Flight Slot Exemptions For The Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.** In May 2024, Schweikert voted for , according to Congressional Quarterly, the "motion to suspend the rules and concur in the Senate amendment to the FAA reauthorization bill (HR 3935), that would reauthorize federal aviation programs for five years through fiscal 2028. The bill would authorize more than \$105 billion for the Federal Aviation Administration, including \$66.7 billion for FAA operations; \$19.35 billion for airport planning and development; \$17.8 billion for facilities and equipment; and \$1.6 billion for civil aviation research and development. It would require domestic and foreign airlines to grant refunds when the airline cancels or delays a flight by three or more hours for domestic flights or six or more hours for international flights and make refund requests easily available on the carrier\'s website. It also would require domestic and foreign airlines to update passenger notification systems to ensure passengers are notified of their right to a refund. It also would establish requirements for the Enhanced Qualification Program for air carriers who are certified to provide enhanced training for pilots seeking to obtain restricted airline transport certificates. It also would require the Transportation Department, within 60 days of the bill\'s enactment, to add 10 flight slot exemptions --- allowing five new round-trip flights through Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport. It would prohibit the operation of aircraft manufactured one year after the bill's enactment unless it has a voice recorder that retains the last 25 hours of recorded information. The bill also would require, within six years of its enactment, all aircraft in use to be equipped with a voice recorder that retains the last 25 hours of recorded information." The vote was on the motion to concur in the Senate amendments. The House concurred by a vote of 387 to 26, thus, it was sent to President Biden who signed it into law. \[House Vote 200, [5/15/24](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2024/roll200.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [5/15/24](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2024/H/200?12); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 3935](http://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/3935/all-actions)\]

-   **The Bill Increased Funding For The Airport Improvement Program To \$4 Billion From \$3.4 Billion In The Past 10 Years.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "\[The bill\] would also boost authorizations for the Airport Improvement Program, which funds new infrastructure, to \$4 billion a year, the first increase for a program that's been set at \$3.4 billion annually for the past 10 years." \[Congressional Quarterly, [5/15/24](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-8010682?15)\]

-   **The Bill Included Various Provisions To Address Workforce Shortages.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "The measure would require the FAA to make its hiring target for air traffic controllers equal to the maximum number of trainees that can be taught at the FAA Academy. The number of air traffic controllers has severely declined in the past decade or so, a shortage that Congress has linked to a number of close-call airplane collisions. Aviation and engineering unions have applauded other workforce language in the bill, including provisions that would require the FAA to update its aviation safety inspector model to boost hiring of safety inspectors and other specialists. The bill would also expand the Aviation Workforce Development Grant Program to include hiring and training of the aviation manufacturing workforce." \[Congressional Quarterly, [5/15/24](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-8010682?15)\]

-   **The Bill Expanded The Use Of Unmanned Aircraft Systems Like Drones For Inspection, Operations, And Construction Purposes as Well As In The Response To Wildfires.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "To promote the adoption of unmanned aircraft systems like drones into the national airspace, the bill would expand use of beyond-visual-line-of-sight operations and establish a program to provide grants to support the use of small UAS for more efficient inspection, operations and construction of infrastructure. It also would require the FAA to collaborate with agencies to create a plan to use UAS in wildfire response efforts." \[Congressional Quarterly, [5/15/24](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-8010682?15)\]

**2024: Schweikert Voted To Extend The FAA Authorization For A Week Until The House Could Vote On The Senate-Passed Five Year Reauthorization.** In May 2024, Schweikert voted for , according to Congressional Quarterly, the "motion to suspend the rules and pass the bill that would extend through May 17, 2024 the authorization of Federal Aviation Administration programs. It would extend the authorization of approximately \$2.1 billion for the Airport Improvement Program and approximately \$335 million in supplemental discretionary funds for use through that date. It also would extend a number of expiring authorities for FAA programs, including Homeland Security Department authorities to counter unmanned aircraft systems and the date on which the Transportation Department can propose regulations for commercial space flight. It would extend through May 17, 2024 aviation related excise taxes used to fund the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and the authority to spend amounts in the fund through May 18, 2024." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote of 385 to 24. \[House Vote 187, [5/8/24](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2024/roll187.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [5/8/24](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2024/H/187?18); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 8289](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/8289/all-actions)\]