---
title: Surface Transportation
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-09-24T22:09:50.990Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-24T22:09:46.339Z
---

# Surface Transportation

### Addressing Negative Impacts On Communities

**2022: Schweikert Voted Against Providing \$3 Billion For Federal Highway Administration Grants To Address Surface Transportation Facilities That Separated Or Harmed Communities.** In August 2022, according to Congressional Quarterly, Schweikert voted against concurring in the Senate amendment to the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which would provide "\$3 billion for Federal Highway Administration grants for projects that address surface transportation facilities that disconnect or negatively impact communities." The vote was on a motion to concur. The House concurred with the Senate by a vote 220-207, thus the bill was sent to President Biden for final signage. President Biden signed the bill and it ultimately became law. \[House Vote 420, [8/12/22](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2022/roll420.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [8/12/22](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2022/H/420?6); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 5376](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/5376/actions)\]

### Funding Extension

**2021: Schweikert Voted Against Extending Funding And Authorities Through December 3, 2021 For Federal Surface Transportation Programs And Programs Funded By The Highway Trust Fund.** In October 2021, Schweikert voted against the Further Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2021 which would, according to Congressional Quarterly, "extend through Dec. 3, 2021, funding and authorities for federal surface transportation programs, including highway, public transit, rail and safety and research programs that were previously extended to expire on Oct. 31. It would continue extended authorizations through Dec. 3 for programs funded by the highway and mass transit accounts of the Highway Trust Fund in amounts proportional to amounts authorized for such programs in fiscal 2021. It would extend expenditure authority for the fund through Dec. 4. It would require any federal employees furloughed in the case of a trust fund expenditure lapse to be paid for the period of the lapse. It would also extend through Dec. 4 expiring authorities for Sport Fish Restoration and Boating and Leaking Underground Storage Tank trust fund expenditures. Upon enactment of the bipartisan infrastructure package (HR 3684), it would rescind any duplicate contract authority provided by the bill." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote of 358-59, sent to the Senate, where it passed by unanimous consent, and was sent to the President and ultimately became law. \[House Vote 339, [10/28/21](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2021/roll339.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [10/28/21](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2021/H/339?11); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 5763](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/5763/actions)\]

-   **The Extension Would Avoid The Furloughing Of Employees And Project Interruptions Of The Transportation Department By Extending The Programs From October 31, 2021 To December 3, 2021.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "With federal highway and transit programs scheduled to expire Sunday, the House instead passed, 358-59, another short-term extension (HR 5763), this time through Dec. 3, to avoid Transportation Department furloughs and project interruptions." \[Congressional Quarterly, [10/29/21](https://plus.cq.com/doc/btnews-6377297?14)\]

**2021: Schweikert Voted Against Extending The Funding And The Authorization Of Federal Surface Transportation Programs Through October 31st, 2021.** In October 2021, Schweikert voted against the Surface Transportation Extension Act of 2021 which would, according to Congressional Quarterly, "extend through Oct. 31, 2021, funding and authorities for federal surface transportation programs, including highway, public transit, rail and safety and research programs that expire after Sept. 30. For the extension period, it would authorize appropriations for programs funded by the highway and mass transit accounts of the Highway Trust Fund in amounts proportional to amounts authorized for such programs in fiscal 2021. It would extend expenditure authority for the fund through Nov. 1, 2021. It would require federal employees furloughed as a result of the trust fund expenditure lapse to be paid for the period of the lapse, and it would require employees required to work during the lapse to be paid at their standard rate of pay. It would increase funding levels during the extension period for nationally significant freight and highway projects grants and in-vehicle alcohol detection device research. It would also extend for approximately one month expiring authorities for Sport Fish Restoration and Boating and Leaking Underground Storage Tank trust fund expenditures and funding for the Appalachian Regional Commission and sport fishing activities. Upon enactment of the bipartisan infrastructure package (HR 3684), it would rescind any duplicate contract authority provided by the bill." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote of 365-51 and sent to the Senate and President and became law. \[House Vote 313, [10/1/21](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2021/roll313.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [10/1/21](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2021/H/313?6); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 5434](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/5434/actions)\]

-   **The Measure To Extend Surface Transportation Programs Was A "Backup Plan" Which Would Buy Lawmakers Time To Gather More Support For The Infrastructure Bill.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "The extension (HR 5434), which passed the House 365-51 and the Senate via unanimous consent, was a backup plan initiated after House Democratic leaders determined they couldn't yet round up the votes for a Senate-passed bipartisan infrastructure bill (HR 3684) containing a five-year reauthorization of surface transportation programs and \$550 billion in new spending." \[Congressional Quarterly, [10/2/21](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-6356843?10)\]

-   **The Transportation Of Department Had Furloughed 3,700 Employees Due To The Programs' Expiration.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "A Transportation Department spokesperson said Friday that 3,700 agency employees had been furloughed as a result of the authorization expiring. The agency is 'taking every step we can to mitigate the impacts of this temporary lapse in authorization,' the spokesperson said ahead of the House vote." \[Congressional Quarterly, [10/2/21](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-6356843?10)\]

-   **Progressive Democrats Promised To Oppose The Infrastructure Bill Until A Larger Tax And Spending Bill Is Passed.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "The Senate's five-year infrastructure bill was brought to the floor Monday and debate stretched throughout the week in aim of a Thursday vote before surface transportation programs lapsed. The measure is one of two bills that make up Biden's economic agenda, but progressive Democrats had threatened to oppose it until the other piece, a larger tax and spending package, is passed." \[Congressional Quarterly, [10/2/21](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-6356843?10)\]

-   **The Extension Would Provide A 30 --Day Deadline to Pass The Infrastructure Bill, But The Larger Tax And Spending Bill Will Need To Pass First Or Congress Will Need To Pass Another Program Extension.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "the 30-day extension of the surface transportation authorization (PL 114-94) effectively provides a new deadline for the House to act on the Senate-passed infrastructure bill. That means the larger tax and spending bill (HR 5376) for health, education and other programs will need to be done by then, or Democratic leaders will have to try to move another short-term patch." \[Congressional Quarterly, [10/2/21](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-6356843?10)\]