---
title: FY 2025
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-09-24T19:45:45.773Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-24T19:45:41.481Z
---

# FY 2025

**2025: Begich Voted For The FY 2025 Budget Framework That Included \$2 Trillion In Cuts, Raised The Statutory Debt Limit By \$4 Trillion, And Required House Committees To Recommend Legislation That Would Implement Trump's Agenda.** In February 2025, Begich voted for , according to Congressional Quarterly, "the concurrent resolution that would recommend a budget for fiscal 2025 and budget levels through fiscal 2034. The resolution would assume minimum savings of \$1.5 trillion over 10 years and 2.6 percent economic growth over the same period. It also would require the statutory debt limit to be raised by \$4 trillion. It also would authorize the House Ways and Means Committee to increase deficits by \$4.5 trillion over 10 years to extend the 2017 tax cuts and implement new tax cuts proposed by the White House. It also would provide instructions for the budget reconciliation process through which separate legislation could be considered and passed in the Senate via a simple majority vote. The measure would deliver instructions to 11 House committees to report legislation that would implement President Donald Trump's agenda, such as expanding tax cuts and bolstering border security and immigration enforcement. The committees would be required to report their legislative recommendations to the House Budget Committee by March 27, 2025. It also would set a \$2 trillion target for the spending cuts to be submitted to the House Budget Committee. The resolution also would stipulate that if the committees don\'t reach that target, the Ways and Means' reconciliation instructions to increase the deficit by a maximum of \$4.5 trillion would be decreased by the amount the other committees come in below the target. Similarly, it would stipulate that Ways and Means could increase the deficit above the \$4.5 trillion level by the amount of savings the committees achieve above the \$2 trillion target." The vote was on passage. The House passed the resolution by a vote of 217 to 215. \[House Vote 50, [[2/25/25]{.underline}](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2025/roll050.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [[2/25/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2025/H/50?4); Congressional Actions, [[H. Con. Res. 14]{.underline}](https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house-concurrent-resolution/14/all-actions)\]

-   **The Resolution Was A First Step In The Reconciliation Process As The Senate, Which Sought A Slimmer Resolution, Would Need To Adopt The Same Resolution For The Process To Move Forward.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "And the plan remains at odds with that of Senate Republicans, who are pursuing their own slimmer budget blueprint (S Con Res 7) focused on border security and defense, while deferring tax legislation until later in the year. Both chambers would need to adopt the same budget resolution before taking up a reconciliation bill containing all the specific spending cuts, tax cuts and other measures." \[Congressional Quarterly, [[2/25/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-8182831?17)\]

-   **Moderate Republicans Originally Concerned With The Potential For Medicaid Cuts Were Assured The \$880 Billion In Cuts From The Energy And Commerce Committee Would Target Medicaid Fraud.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "Party moderates, meanwhile, earlier expressed concern about the impact spending cuts could have on Medicaid, the health insurance program for low-income families. The budget would instruct the Energy and Commerce Committee to find \$880 billion in savings over a decade, and Medicaid is the ripest target for cuts in that panel\'s jurisdiction. Cuts to food stamp benefits in the Agriculture panel\'s jurisdiction were another sticking point. But they won reassurances from House leaders after a late-night meeting Monday that included Majority Leader Steve Scalise, R-La., and Energy and Commerce Chairman Brett Guthrie, R-Ky., Johnson said Tuesday, that cost-cutting would focus on Medicaid fraud, while not touching benefits for those eligible for the program." \[Congressional Quarterly, [[2/25/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-8182831?17)\]

### Continuing Resolution

**2025: Begich Voted For The FY 2025 Continuing Resolution That Cut Nondefense Spending By \$13 Billion While Increasing Defense Spending By \$6 Billion And Extended Certain Health Programs Through September 30th.** In March 2025, Begich voted for. , according to Congressional Quarterly, "the bill that would extend government funding through the end of fiscal year 2025 (Sept. 30). The measure would retain most programs and activities at fiscal year 2024 funding levels, but would make cuts to certain domestic and foreign assistance programs. The continuing resolution would reduce nondefense funding by approximately \$13 billion, while increasing defense spending by \$6 billion, making for a net decrease of \$7 billion in discretionary spending. The bill also would include an extension of several health care programs through Sept. 30 including funding for community health centers, graduate medical education programs, and the special diabetes programs. It also would extend add-on payments for low-volume hospitals and Medicare add-on payments for rural ambulance services and extend telehealth flexibilities for hospitals to treat patients in their own homes." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote of 217 to 213. \[House Vote 70, [[3/11/25]{.underline}](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2025/roll070.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [[3/11/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2025/H/70?4); Congressional Actions, [[H.R. 1968]{.underline}](https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house--bill/1968/all-actions)\]

-   **Some Republicans Initially Opposed The Bill Arguing It Didn't Cut Spending Enough But Ultimately Voted For The Bill After Lobbying By Vice President Vance, Who Promised A Rescissions Package.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "Some wavering House Republicans had complained the bill wouldn\'t do enough to cut spending and would effectively extend the funding levels set during the Biden administration, while giving more money to the Pentagon. But they ultimately voted in favor of the bill after a closing pitch Tuesday morning by Vance, who told Republicans in their conference meeting that the administration would submit a rescissions package to claw back spending deemed wasteful by Elon Musk\'s Department of Government Efficiency, or DOGE." \[Congressional Quarterly, [[3/12/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/doc/btnews-8195478?11)\]

-   **Democrats Called The Resolution A "Blank Check" For The Trump Administration.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "House Democrats denounced the CR as a 'blank check' and a 'power grab' by the Trump administration to spend money however it wishes. They have sought a provision to protect the congressional \"power of the purse\" as Trump and DOGE fire thousands of federal workers, freeze funding for some programs and gut agencies like the U.S. Agency for International Development." \[Congressional Quarterly, [[3/12/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/doc/btnews-8195478?11)\]

-   **The Resolution Omitted A Provision That Would Have Allowed D.C. To Operate Under Its Most Recently Approved Budget And Exempt The City From A Potential Government Shutdown In October.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "After the vote, House Appropriations ranking member Rosa DeLauro tried to get unanimous consent to adopt an engrossment correction --- changes to the bill text in the version that's officially sent to the Senate. The resolution would add \[...\] language omitted from the stopgap bill that would allow Washington, D.C., to operate under its most recently approved budget and exempt it from a potential government shutdown starting next October. Del. Eleanor Homes Norton, D-D.C., railed against the provisions' omission in floor remarks Tuesday, echoing comments from D.C. Mayor Muriel Bowser on Monday that it could cost the city government over \$1 billion in revenue for the remainder of the fiscal year." \[Congressional Quarterly, [[3/12/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/doc/btnews-8195478?11)\]

-   **The Bill Held The Topline Below What Was Agreed To In The 2023 Debt agreement And Reduced Nondefense Spending Through Cuts To Earmarked Line-Item Projects In FY 2024 Funding.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "The bill would boost defense spending over the previous year\'s level, while holding the topline below the fiscal 2025 ceiling agreed to as part of the 2023 debt limit agreement. Meanwhile nondefense spending would take a significant hit on paper, though that\'s mostly achieved through cutting funds that had been earmarked for line-item member projects in the fiscal 2024 spending packages (PL 118-42, PL 118-47)." \[Congressional Quarterly, [[3/11/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-8195447?12)\]

-   **Total Funding Under The Bill Was \$1.658 Trillion With A .7 Percent Increase In Defense Spending And 1.7 Percent Reduction In Nondefense Spending.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "House Appropriations Chairman Tom Cole, R-Okla., said total discretionary funding under the long-term stopgap measure is \$1.658 trillion. The Congressional Budget Office pegged the defense category at \$892.5 billion, a \$6.2 billion or 0.7 percent increase, leaving roughly \$765.5 billion for nondefense programs, a \$13 billion or 1.7 percent reduction." \[Congressional Quarterly, [[3/11/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-8195447?12)\]

-   **Leadership Removed A Provision That Increased The Quantity Of Special Immigrant Visas For Afghans To Convince GOP Holdouts To Vote For The Bill.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "House leaders made a significant concession Monday night by tucking into the bill a manager\'s amendment to remove a provision that would have increased the number of Special Immigrant Visas available to Afghans. Supporters of the provision have said Afghans who helped the U.S. fight the Taliban deserve protection, but critics have questioned whether Afghans are carefully vetted before being allowed to immigrate." \[Congressional Quarterly, [[3/11/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-8195447?12)\]

-   **Hakeem Jeffries Claimed The Bill Granted Trump Too Much Authority And Was An "Attack" On Veterans, Families, And Seniors.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries, D-N.Y., attacked the measure as a 'partisan, reckless spending bill' that gives Trump too much authority and amounts to 'an attack on veterans, an attack on families, an attack on seniors.'" \[Congressional Quarterly, [[3/11/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-8195447?12)\]

-   **The Bill Included A Blanket Provision That Allowed For New Pentagon Programs, Granting The Pentagon General Transfer Authority Of \$8 Billion.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "The Pentagon, in particular, has never operated under a full-year continuing resolution and has long resisted such an outcome, saying it would hamstring the ability to respond to new threats. The CR tries to address that concern by including a blanket provision allowing for the start of new programs, but it\'s not clear how many new programs could be funded. The measure would give the Pentagon general transfer authority of \$8 billion, so defense officials could rearrange their fiscal priorities up to that level before requiring new congressional approval." \[Congressional Quarterly, [[3/11/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-8195447?12)\]

### House Budget Resolution

**2025: Begich Voted To Concur In The Senate Amendment To The FY 2025 House Budget Resolution.** In April 2025, Begich voted for , according to Congressional Quarterly, "motion to concur in the Senate amendment to the fiscal 2025 budget resolution that would recommend a budget for fiscal 2025 and budget levels through fiscal 2034. The resolution would set a goal to reduce mandatory spending by \$2 trillion. It also would include reconciliation instructions to increase the deficit for the House Armed Services Committee by \$100 billion, the Homeland Security Committee by \$90 billion and the Judiciary Committee by \$110 billion over the 10-year period. Senate instructions would direct the Senate Armed Services Committee to increase the deficit by \$150 billion, the Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee by \$20 billion, the Environment and Public Works Committee by \$1 billion, and the Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee and the Judiciary Committee by a total of \$175 billion each over the 10-year period. It also would require the House Ways and Means Committee to raise the statutory debt by \$4 trillion. It would authorize the committee to increase deficits by \$4.5 trillion over 10 years to extend the 2017 tax cuts and implement new tax cuts proposed by the White House. In comparison, the Senate Finance Committee would be required to raise the statutory debt limit by up to \$5 trillion and would be authorized to increase deficits by \$1.5 trillion. The measure would deliver instructions to 11 House committees to report legislation that would comport with the spending guidance for their jurisdiction. Similarly, the measure would deliver instructions to 10 Senate committees to report legislation that would comport with the spending guidance for their jurisdiction. All committees would be required to report their legislative recommendations to the House and Senate Budget committees by May 9, 2025. The measure also would set a \$2 trillion target for the spending cuts to be submitted to the House Budget Committee. It would stipulate that if the committees don\'t reach that target, the Ways and Means Committee's reconciliation instructions to increase the deficit by a maximum of \$4.5 trillion would be decreased by the amount the other committees come in below the target. Similarly, it would stipulate that Ways and Means could increase the deficit above the \$4.5 trillion level by the amount of savings the committees achieve above the \$2 trillion target." The vote was on the motion to concur. The House concurred by a vote of 216 to 214. \[House Vote 100, [[4/9/25]{.underline}](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2025/roll100.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [[4/9/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2025/H/100?4); Congressional Actions, [[H.Con.Res. 14]{.underline}](https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house-concurrent-resolution/14/all-actions)\]

-   **The Senate Version Called For Fewer Spending Cuts, Larger, Tax Cuts, And A Bigger Debt Limit Increase Than The House Version.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "It\'s no sure thing at this point the House GOP will be able to adopt the Senate\'s revisions, which would allow for smaller spending cuts and larger tax cuts, paired with a bigger debt limit increase, than the House\'s budget framework." \[Congressional Quarterly, [[4/5/25]{.underline}](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-8215684?17)\]

-   **The Senate Version Included Over \$5 Trillion In Tax Cuts Compared To \$4.5 Trillion In The House Version.** According to NPR, "All together the Senate plan would allow for more than \$5 trillion in tax cuts. The blueprint would extend the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act passed in 2017 under Trump\'s first term. The program is set to expire by year end, which would mean a tax hike for millions of Americans. The bill also provides for an additional \$1.5 trillion in new tax cuts. Republicans are hoping the new cuts can make good on several of Trump\'s promises from the campaign, like no taxes on tips. The House, by comparison, has passed a budget framework that sets aside \$4.5 trillion for tax cuts." \[NPR, [[4/5/25]{.underline}](https://www.npr.org/2025/04/05/g-s1-58281/senate-budget-resolution-reconciliation-trump)\]

-   **The Senate Version Required \$4 Billion Spending Cuts Compared To The \$1.5 Trillion, Including \$880 Billion Targeted At Medicaid, Required By The House Version.** According to NPR, "One of the biggest differences between the Senate plan and the House plan is how to pay for tax cuts. The bill directs both chambers to cut the deficit through spending cuts. While the Senate spending cuts are set at just around \$4 billion, the House intends to cut at least \$1.5 trillion. That includes a directive to the House Energy and Commerce Committee to cut \$880 billion in spending, which has raised fear that those cuts can\'t happen without a significant hit to Medicaid benefits." \[NPR, [[4/5/25]{.underline}](https://www.npr.org/2025/04/05/g-s1-58281/senate-budget-resolution-reconciliation-trump)\]

-   **Senate Republicans Planned To Use A "Procedural Gimmick" To Make The \$3.8 Trillion Required To Expand Trump's Tax Cuts Effectively Cost Nothing.** According to NPR, "Senate Republicans are also hoping to use a procedural gimmick that would effectively work to make the \$3.8 trillion it would take to extend the Trump tax cuts appear to cost nothing. It\'s a risky approach that is already causing tension between Republicans in the Senate and their House counterparts --- and could prove one of the biggest obstacles to final passage." \[NPR, [[4/5/25]{.underline}](https://www.npr.org/2025/04/05/g-s1-58281/senate-budget-resolution-reconciliation-trump)\]

-   **The Senate Version Included An Additional \$521 Billion For GOP Policy Priorities.** According to NPR, "The Senate plan also calls for an additional \$521 billion in spending for a range of GOP policy priorities. There as much as \$175 billion that\'s expected to be used for border enforcement, plus \$150 billion for defense spending." \[NPR, [[4/5/25]{.underline}](https://www.npr.org/2025/04/05/g-s1-58281/senate-budget-resolution-reconciliation-trump)\]

-   **The Senate Version Called For \$150 Billion In Defense Spending Compared To The \$100 Billion In The House Version.** According to the Hill, "Another major sticking point between Senate and House Republicans is how much to increase defense spending in the reconciliation bill. The Senate budget calls for \$150 billion in direct defense spending while the House budget called for \$100 billion in additional defense spending. Graham, the Senate budget chairman, kept the conflicting instructions to the Senate and House Armed Services Committees to postpone a fight between the chambers on the issue until later in the year." \[Hill, [[4/5/25]{.underline}](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5233787-senate-republicans-vote-budget-resolution/)\]

-   **The Senate Version Capped The Deficit Increase At \$1.5 Trillion While The House Version Capped The Deficit Increase At \$4.5 Trillion, Resulting In Opposition From House Republicans Who Claim The Senate Cap Is Too Low To Enact Trump's Tax Priorities.** According to the Hill, "House Republicans included language in their budget instructing the Ways and Means panel to submit changes in laws that increase the deficit by not more than \$4.5 trillion. The Senate budget kept the House's instruction but also included a separate instruction to the Senate Finance Committee to report changes in laws that increase the deficit by not more than \$1.5 trillion. One Republican senator said the Senate language has prompted grumbling among House Republicans that the instruction to the Senate Finance Committee sets too low of a deficit cap to accommodate all of Trump's tax priorities, such as exempting tipped wages and Social Security benefits from taxation." \[Hill, [[4/5/25]{.underline}](https://thehill.com/homenews/senate/5233787-senate-republicans-vote-budget-resolution/)\]