---
title: Ryan Mackenzie Held a Hearing Where He Suggested OSHA Was Doing Too Much
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-12-09T19:51:07.386Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-12-05T17:33:48.548Z
---

## Overview

In May 2025, Mackenzie, chair of the House Workforce Protections subcommittee, held a hearing titled, “Reclaiming OSHA’s mission.” During the hearing, Mackenzie claimed that OSHA had engaged in what he claimed was regulatory overreach during the Biden administration and that OSHA had focused on things “that OSHA should not have been doing.” Mackenzie questioned OSHA’s work at the same time the Trump administration planned to shut down 11 OSHA area offices and started terminating the vast majority of workers at the National Institute For Occupational Safety And health (NIOSH), a research agency that was vital to OSHA’s work. During the hearing, former OSHA Deputy Assistant Secretary Jordan Barab testified that in fiscal year 2024, before Trump’s attacks on the agency, OSHA only had 1,800 inspectors, which meant there was one inspector for every 84,937 workers in the U.S. They said this meant it would take 185 years for OSHA to inspect every workplace in the country once.

One of the things Mackenzie highlighted as overreach was OSHA’s expansion of its Severe Violator Enforcement Program, which sought to hold companies accountable for willfully or repeatedly violating worker safety standards. Another was the expansion of OSHA’S instance by instance policy, which was designed to hold employers that continue to fail to address worker safety hazards accountable. Another was OSHA’s proposed heat standard, which sought to require that employers provide water and rest breaks for their employees when temperatures surpassed certain levels, like 80 and 90 degrees. Mackenzie claimed the rule was “unworkable” and echoed industry talking points that it represented a “one size fits all” approach.

However, one of the things Mackenzie championed as something OSHA should focus on was creating a federal tree care standard. A witness Mackenzie called to testify was the president of Arborist Enterprises in Lancaster, PA who testified on behalf of the Tree Care Industry Association. Then in June 2025, a little more than one month after Mackenzie’s hearing, the Tree Care Industry Association’s PAC donated $1,000 to Mackenzie’s congressional campaign. 

## May 2025: Mackenzie Chaired A Subcommittee Hearing Titled “Reclaiming OSHA’s Mission” Where He Criticized The Biden Administration For What He Claimed Was Federal Overreach By The Agency

### Mackenzie Claimed Osha, Under the Biden Administration, Had Gone Beyond Its Statutory Authority

**PRESS RELEASE: "Mackenzie Holds Hearing On Reclaiming OSHA's Mission"** \[Press Release – U.S. House Committee on Education and Workforce, [5/15/25](https://edworkforce.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=412466)\]

**Mackenzie: “However, In Recent Years, We've Seen A Regulatory Approach That In Many Cases May Have Gone Beyond OSHA's Statutory Authority Under The Occupational Safety And Health Act.”** According to a U.S. House Education and Workforce subcommittee hearing chaired by Rep. Ryan Mackenzie, "MACKENZIE: OSHA enforcement efforts include monetary and even criminal penalties, all with the goal of protecting workers. That mission is critically important. However, in recent years, we've seen a regulatory approach that in many cases may have gone beyond OSHA's statutory authority under the Occupational Safety and Health Act. While these actions may have been well-intentioned, they often created confusion or imposed overly broad mandates that didn't meet the realities of the industries affected, especially for small businesses." \[Hearing – U.S. House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, [5/15/25](https://edworkforce.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=412442)\] (video) 

-   **Mackenzie: “OSHA's Mission Is Too Important To Be Undermined By Overreach As The Nature Of Work Continues To Change. Broad Based Regulatory Efforts Can Unintentionally Create More Problems Than They Solve."** According to a U.S. House Education and Workforce subcommittee hearing chaired by Rep. Ryan Mackenzie, "MACKENZIE: That's a misguided perspective. Obviously, small businesses succeed when their employers succeed and most of their employers take workplace safety very seriously. OSHA's mission is too important to be undermined by overreach as the nature of work continues to change. Broad based regulatory efforts can unintentionally create more problems than they solve." \[Hearing – U.S. House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, [5/15/25](https://edworkforce.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=412442)\] (video)
-   **Mackenzie: “In The Last Administration, My Opinion Is They Were, Again Because Of Their Overreach And Focus On Things That OSHA Should Not Have Been Doing, They Were Missing The Actual Opportunity To Protect And Improve Worker Safety In An Industry Like Yours.”** According to a U.S. House Education and Workforce subcommittee hearing chaired by Rep. Ryan Mackenzie, "RYAN MACKENZIE: Well, thank you for that. And uh, it's a prime example of where I think we can improve worker safety and do it in partnership in conjunction with the feedback that we're getting from the industry. It's been a missed opportunity I think for a long time that administrations in the past have talked about it ultimately been unsuccessful in doing that. And in the last administration, my opinion is they were, again because of their overreach and focus on things that OSHA should not have been doing, they were missing the actual opportunity to protect and improve worker safety in an industry like yours. So thank you for that. Uh, final question goes to Ms. Watson." \[Hearing – U.S. House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, [5/15/25](https://edworkforce.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=412442)\] (video)

#### Mackenzie’s Hearing Came At A Time When The Trump Administration Was Gutting OSHA And The National Institute For Occupational Safety And Health (NIOSH)

**HEADLINE: "Trump Guts Agency Critical To Worker Safety As Temperatures Rise"** \[Inside Climate News, [4/11/25](https://insideclimatenews.org/news/11042025/trump-dismantles-worker-safety-agency-as-temperatures-rise/)\]

**The Trump Administration Planned To Close 11 Area OSHA Offices.** According to Inside Climate News, "And now the administration plans to close 11 area offices of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration, or OSHA, which issues regulations to protect workers from hazardous conditions like extreme heat. And at the beginning of the month, it started terminating the vast majority of workers at an obscure research agency that is vital to OSHA’s work: the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, or NIOSH." \[Inside Climate News, [4/11/25](https://insideclimatenews.org/news/11042025/trump-dismantles-worker-safety-agency-as-temperatures-rise/)\]

-   **HEADLINE: "OSHA Office Closure In ‘Cancer Alley’ Raises Fears About Risks To Workers"** \[American Prospect, [4/18/25](https://prospect.org/labor/2025-04-18-osha-office-closure-cancer-alley-louisiana/)\]

**April 2025: The Trump Administration Started Terminating The Vast Majority Of Workers At The National Institute For Occupational Safety And Health (NIOSH), A Research Agency That Was Vital To OSHA’s Work.** According to Inside Climate News, "And at the beginning of the month, it started terminating the vast majority of workers at an obscure research agency that is vital to OSHA’s work: the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, or NIOSH. Roughly 1,300 employees work for NIOSH, long housed within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC. Earlier this month, at least two-thirds of the staff received ‘reduction in force’ notices, alerting them that their jobs would be terminated." \[Inside Climate News, [4/11/25](https://insideclimatenews.org/news/11042025/trump-dismantles-worker-safety-agency-as-temperatures-rise/)\]

**NIOSH Was The Only Federal Agency That Was Mandated To Produce Research And Recommendations On Preventing Work-Related Injury, Illness, And Death.** According to Inside Climate News, "NIOSH is the only federal agency mandated to produce research and recommendations to prevent work-related injury, illness and death.  The agency provides the scientific basis for all the health and safety regulations that protect America’s tens of millions of workers. It also issues guidelines for hazards that lack OSHA standards, including exposure to extreme heat." \[Inside Climate News, [4/11/25](https://insideclimatenews.org/news/11042025/trump-dismantles-worker-safety-agency-as-temperatures-rise/)\]

**HEADLINE: "Trump’s Safety Research Cuts Heighten Workplace Risks, Federal Workers Warn"** \[The Guardian, [5/27/25](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2025/may/27/trump-safety-cuts-workplace-risks-niosh)\]

#### Former OSHA Deputy Assistant Secretary Testified That OSHA Was Already Understaffed Before Trump Started Gutting It

**Former OSHA Deputy Assistant Secretary Jordan Barab Said In FY 2024 OSHA Only Had 1,800 Inspectors, Which Was One For Every 84,937 Workers.** According to Inside Climate News, "Barab told the committee he objected to the title of the hearing. ‘OSHA’s problem is not overreach, but rather underreach,’ he said. It’s a tiny agency with a minuscule budget and an enormous mission to ensure the work safety of 11.8 million workplaces covering 161 million workers, Barab said. In fiscal year 2024, OSHA had only 1,800 inspectors, one for every 84,937 workers, Barab told the committee. ‘If OSHA was to inspect every workplace in the country, just once, it would take 185 years, almost two centuries, and it only promises to get worse.’ OSHA has lost 10 percent of its staff due to early retirements offered by the administration, and there is very little likelihood that any of these positions will be refilled, Barab said. ‘This is hardly a recipe for reclaiming OSHA’s mission.’" \[Inside Climate News, [5/15/25](https://insideclimatenews.org/news/15052025/republicans-attack-osha-worker-heat-safety-rules/)\]

**Former OSHA Deputy Assistant Secretary Jordan Barab Said It Would Have Taken OSHA 185 Years To Inspect Every Workplace In The Country Once With Its FY 2024 Workforce.** According to Inside Climate News, "Barab told the committee he objected to the title of the hearing. ‘OSHA’s problem is not overreach, but rather underreach,’ he said. It’s a tiny agency with a minuscule budget and an enormous mission to ensure the work safety of 11.8 million workplaces covering 161 million workers, Barab said. In fiscal year 2024, OSHA had only 1,800 inspectors, one for every 84,937 workers, Barab told the committee. ‘If OSHA was to inspect every workplace in the country, just once, it would take 185 years, almost two centuries, and it only promises to get worse.’  OSHA has lost 10 percent of its staff due to early retirements offered by the administration, and there is very little likelihood that any of these positions will be refilled, Barab said. ‘This is hardly a recipe for reclaiming OSHA’s mission.’" \[Inside Climate News, [5/15/25](https://insideclimatenews.org/news/15052025/republicans-attack-osha-worker-heat-safety-rules/)\]

### During the Hearing, Mackenzie Criticized the Expansion of The Severe Violator Enforcement Program

**Mackenzie Criticized The Expansion Of The Severe Violator Enforcement Program, Claiming It “May Reflect A View Of Employers As Adversaries Rather Than Partners In Workplace Safety."** According to a U.S. House Education and Workforce subcommittee hearing chaired by Rep. Ryan Mackenzie, "MACKENZIE: And the proposed heat standard, while addressing a real concern, takes a one size fits all approach that fails to account for a wide range of conditions and different industries and regions. We've also seen an expansion of enforcement tools such as the Severe Violator Enforcement Program and the instance by instance citation policy that may reflect a view of employers as adversaries rather than partners in workplace safety." \[Hearing – U.S. House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, [5/15/25](https://edworkforce.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=412442)\] (video)

-   **September 2022: The Labor Department Expanded The OSHA Severe Violator Program To Include Any Type Of Company That Willfully Or Repeatedly Violated Safety Standards.** According to the New York Times, "For years, the Labor Department has operated a Severe Violator Enforcement Program, which targets companies with unsafe working conditions like manufacturers or construction firms with a high number of injuries or deaths.  In September, the department’s Occupational Safety and Health Administration unit widened the scope of the program to include any type of company that willfully or repeatedly violated safety standards. The first to be added under the program’s expanded scope: Dollar General, one of the nation’s fastest-growing retailers." \[New York Times, [3/28/23](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/28/business/dollar-general-osha-fines.html)\]

### Mackenzie Criticized the Expansion of OSHA’s Instance by Instance Policy, Which Was Designed to Hold Employers that Continue to Fail to Address Worker Safety Hazards Accountable

**Mackenzie Criticized The Expansion Of OSHA’s Instance By Instance Citation Policy, Claiming It “May Reflect A View Of Employers As Adversaries Rather Than Partners In Workplace Safety."** According to a U.S. House Education and Workforce subcommittee hearing chaired by Rep. Ryan Mackenzie, "MACKENZIE: And the proposed heat standard, while addressing a real concern, takes a one size fits all approach that fails to account for a wide range of conditions and different industries and regions. We've also seen an expansion of enforcement tools such as the Severe Violator Enforcement Program and the instance by instance citation policy that may reflect a view of employers as adversaries rather than partners in workplace safety." \[Hearing – U.S. House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, [5/15/25](https://edworkforce.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=412442)\] (video)

-   **OSHA’s New Rule Would Allow Repeat Citations To Be Issued For Incidents Surrounding Lockout/Tagout, Machine Guarding, Permit-Required Confined Spaces, Respiratory Protection, Falls, Trenching And For Cases With Other-Than-Serious Violations Specific To Recordkeeping.** According to Construction Dive, "Under the new rule, repeat citations can be issued for incidents surrounding lockout/tagout, machine guarding, permit-required confined spaces, respiratory protection, falls, trenching and for cases with other-than-serious violations specific to recordkeeping. OSHA’s rule change is designed to crack down on employers that continue to fail to address hazards, the agency said.  ‘This is intended to be a targeted strategy for those employers who repeatedly choose to put profits before their employees’ safety, health and wellbeing,’ Doug Parker, assistant secretary for OSHA, said in the announcement. ‘Employers who callously view injured or sickened workers simply as a cost of doing business will face more serious consequences.’  The new guidance covers enforcement activity in general industry, agriculture, maritime and construction, and becomes effective 60 days from Jan. 26." \[Construction Dive, [3/2/23](https://www.constructiondive.com/news/osha-rule-change-instance-citations-high-gravity-higher-fines/644008/)\]
-   **OSHA Said Its Rule Was Designed To Crack Down On Employers That Continued To Fail To Address Worker Safety Hazards.** According to Construction Dive, "Under the new rule, repeat citations can be issued for incidents surrounding lockout/tagout, machine guarding, permit-required confined spaces, respiratory protection, falls, trenching and for cases with other-than-serious violations specific to recordkeeping. OSHA’s rule change is designed to crack down on employers that continue to fail to address hazards, the agency said.  ‘This is intended to be a targeted strategy for those employers who repeatedly choose to put profits before their employees’ safety, health and wellbeing,’ Doug Parker, assistant secretary for OSHA, said in the announcement. ‘Employers who callously view injured or sickened workers simply as a cost of doing business will face more serious consequences.’  The new guidance covers enforcement activity in general industry, agriculture, maritime and construction, and becomes effective 60 days from Jan. 26." \[Construction Dive, [3/2/23](https://www.constructiondive.com/news/osha-rule-change-instance-citations-high-gravity-higher-fines/644008/)\]

### During the Hearing, Mackenzie Particularly Took Issue with OSHA’s Proposed Heat Standard

**HEADLINE: "Republicans Attack Rules Designed To Keep Workers Safe From Heat"** \[Inside Climate News, [5/15/25](https://insideclimatenews.org/news/15052025/republicans-attack-osha-worker-heat-safety-rules/)\]

**Mackenzie Claimed The OSHA Heat Standard Proposed By The Biden Administration Was “Unworkable” Across The Country.** According to a U.S. House Education and Workforce subcommittee hearing chaired by Rep. Ryan Mackenzie, "RYAN MACKENZIE: Thank you. Under Committee Rule 9, we will now ask questions of the witnesses for five minutes and I'll recognize myself first. First, Mr. Parson. If the Department of Labor were to move forward with establishing a heat standard, your written testimony calls for a performance oriented approach to mitigate heat related hazards. What are the benefits of that kind of approach versus the approach that the Biden administration proposed under their heat standard? JAKE PARSON: Yeah, thank you for the question. It -- it really provides flexibility. A performance oriented approach would tie specific standards to specific areas and help industry craft a solution that makes sense for where they are. And so an overall standard sets it up really to fail and the record keeping associated with it and the time taken to administer it would almost be impossible. So it's -- it's not a novel idea necessarily for -- for OSHA. Most employers take great care and looking after heat of heat exhaustion of their employees as it is. And so a real local performance based approach makes a lot more sense. RYAN MACKENZIE: Well, I appreciate that. Again, I think we share the desire for worker safety and having standards in place to protect against heat related hazards. But again, I think you correctly identified the lack of flexibility, the overzealous paperwork requirements that kind of bog down this proposal and ultimately make it unworkable across the country." \[Hearing – U.S. House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, [5/15/25](https://edworkforce.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=412442)\] (video)

-   **2011-2022: Heat Had Caused The Death Of 479 Workers And Nearly 34,000 Heat-Related Injuries, But The Statistics Were Reportedly Vastly Underestimated Due To Multiple Factors.** According to Inside Climate News, "Heat, the leading cause of weather-related deaths in the United States, led to the death of 479 workers and nearly 34,000 work-related heat injuries between 2011-2022, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Experts caution that statistics for occupational heat-related illnesses, injuries and fatalities are likely vast underestimates due to multiple factors, including a failure by medical examiners to recognize heat as the cause of death or employers to report it." \[Inside Climate News, [5/15/25](https://insideclimatenews.org/news/15052025/republicans-attack-osha-worker-heat-safety-rules/)\]
-   **The Biden Administration Was The First To Propose A Heat Rule, More Than 50 Years After It Had Been Recommended By The National Institute Of Occupational Safety And Health.** According to Inside Climate News, "The Biden administration proposed the heat rule more than 50 years after the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, or NIOSH, recommended a standard to protect workers from exposure to heat in the workplace." \[Inside Climate News, [5/15/25](https://insideclimatenews.org/news/15052025/republicans-attack-osha-worker-heat-safety-rules/)\]
-   **The Proposed Heat Standard Would Require Employers To Provide Water And Rest Breaks For Employees When Temperatures Surpassed Certain Levels.** According to the New York Times, "The proposed OSHA rule establishes heat thresholds that trigger specific employer responsibilities. At a heat index of 80 degrees, companies must provide water and break areas. At 90 degrees, they must offer 15-minute breaks once every two hours, in addition to other measures. The heat index combines air temperature with humidity to measure how hot the air feels to a human body. These thresholds are based on scientific research. A 2020 study by researchers at OSHA identified a ‘heat death line,’ a temperature below which few heat deaths occur. Based on an examination of 570 heat-related deaths, they put the figure at 80 degrees and determined that 96 percent of deaths happened at temperatures above the line, though many heat-related illnesses began in cooler weather." \[New York Times, [6/16/25](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/06/16/climate/federal-workplace-heat-rules.html)\]

#### Mackenzie Echoed Industry Talking Points In Opposition To The Heat Rule, Which Claimed It Was “One Size Fits All”

**Mackenzie Claimed The Proposed OSHA Heat Standard Was A One Size Fits All Approach That “Fails To Account For A Wide Range Of Conditions And Different Industries And Regions.”** According to a U.S. House Education and Workforce subcommittee hearing chaired by Rep. Ryan Mackenzie, "MACKENZIE: And the proposed heat standard, while addressing a real concern, takes a one size fits all approach that fails to account for a wide range of conditions and different industries and regions. We've also seen an expansion of enforcement tools such as the Severe Violator Enforcement Program and the instance by instance citation policy that may reflect a view of employers as adversaries rather than partners in workplace safety." \[Hearing – U.S. House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, [5/15/25](https://edworkforce.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=412442)\] (video)

-   **Republicans, Led By Mackenzie, Invited A Witness Who Represented The Largest Building Materials Company In The World, Who Echoed Industry Talking Points That The Proposed Heat Rule Was A “One Size Fits All Rule.”** According to Inside Climate News, "As the majority party in the House, Republicans invited three witnesses to testify: Jake Parson, who represents CRH, the largest building materials company in the world; Ben Tresselt, who represents the tree-care industry; and Felicia Watson, senior counsel with the largest legal practice devoted exclusively to representing management in employment and labor law disputes. The few Democrats on the subcommittee asked Jordan Barab, OSHA deputy assistant secretary under President Barack Obama, to testify. ‘Recent actions by the Department of Labor threaten to impose unworkable rules that do very little to improve safety,’ Parson said, noting that money spent to comply with regulations would be better spent on hiring people, building facilities and creating new products.   Parson took issue with OSHA’s proposed heat rule, calling it a ‘one size fits all rule,’ echoing a complaint made by most trade groups when the rule was proposed.  ‘The heat standard ignores the work manufacturers already do to protect our employees,’ Parson said. In addition, he said, the rule doesn’t recognize that industries operate in diverse geographies with different climates. ‘When it comes to heat, what makes sense for Maine does not make sense in Texas,’ he said." \[Inside Climate News, [5/15/25](https://insideclimatenews.org/news/15052025/republicans-attack-osha-worker-heat-safety-rules/)\]
-   **Former OSHA Deputy Assistant Secretary Jordan Barab Said Construction Workers Made Up About Six Percent Of The Workforce, But Suffered 36 Percent Of All Heat Deaths.** According to Inside Climate News, "Parsons also argued that the heat standard would increase costs while decreasing productivity and that it would be better to let companies take care of their own people. Yet construction workers make up about 6 percent of the working population, and they suffer 36 percent of all heat deaths, Barab said. ‘The notion that different industries need their own standards or should be exempt is a red herring.’" \[Inside Climate News, [5/15/25](https://insideclimatenews.org/news/15052025/republicans-attack-osha-worker-heat-safety-rules/)\]

#### Proponents Argued The Heat Standard Was Designed To Give Employers Flexibility 

**Natural Resources Defense Council Heat And Climate Expert Juanita Constable Said The Heat Rule Was Intentionally Designed To Give Employers Compliance Flexibility.** According to Inside Climate News, "OSHA’s draft heat standard is intentionally designed to give employers compliance flexibility, Juanita Constible, a heat and climate expert with the Natural Resources Defense Council, told Inside Climate News.   ‘In other words, the standard is the equivalent of telling employers to put on some pants, not to put on pants of a specific size, fabric, color and style,’ Constible said. ‘And employers need to have a written plan for how they’re going to provide those protections, rather than simply hoping for the best.’" \[Inside Climate News, [5/15/25](https://insideclimatenews.org/news/15052025/republicans-attack-osha-worker-heat-safety-rules/)\]

## During The Same Hearing, Mackenzie Highlighted The Tree Care Industry As An Area OSHA Should Focus On, Then, One Month Later, The Industry’s PAC Donated To His Campaign

### May 2025: Mackenzie Highlighted the Tree Care Industry as One He Thought Osha Should Focus on And Invited a Witness to Testify on Its Behalf 

**Mackenzie Claimed The Tree Care Industry Had Petitioned For The Creation Of A Federal Standard For Two Decades And They Relied On A Patchwork Of Standards.** According to a U.S. House Education and Workforce subcommittee hearing chaired by Rep. Ryan Mackenzie, "MACKENZIE: That's a misguided perspective. Obviously, small businesses succeed when their employers succeed and most of their employers take workplace safety very seriously. OSHA's mission is too important to be undermined by overreach as the nature of work continues to change. Broad based regulatory efforts can unintentionally create more problems than they solve. That's why today's conversation is so critically important. For instance, this tree care industry has petitioned for the creation of a federal tree care standard for nearly two decades. This is one of the most dangerous industries in the nation, but workers currently rely on a patchwork of standards that do not adequately address the unique challenges of the work being performed." \[Hearing – U.S. House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, [5/15/25](https://edworkforce.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=412442)\] (video)

-   **One Of The Witnesses Called At Mackenzie’s OSHA Hearing Was The President Of Arborist Enterprises In Lancaster, PA Who Testified On Behalf Of The Tree Care Industry Association.** According to a U.S. House Education and Workforce subcommittee hearing chaired by Rep. Ryan Mackenzie, "MACKENZIE: Our second witness is Mr. Ben Tresselt, the president and owner of Arborist Enterprises in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, testifying on behalf of the Tree Care Industry Association. Our third witness is Mr. Jordan Barab, the former deputy assistant secretary of OSHA from Takoma Park, Maryland. And our final witness is Ms. Felicia Watson, a senior counsel for Littler Mendelson in Washington, DC. We want to thank all of our witnesses for being here today and we look forward to each of your testimony." \[Hearing – U.S. House Committee on Education and the Workforce, Subcommittee on Workforce Protections, [5/15/25](https://edworkforce.house.gov/calendar/eventsingle.aspx?EventID=412442)\] (video)

### June 2025: One Month Later, the Tree Care Industry Association Pac Donated $1,000 to Mackenzie’s Campaign

**6/20/25: Mackenzie Accepted $1,000 From The Tree Care Industry Association’s PAC.** 

|     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **RECIPIENT** | **CONTRIBUTOR** | **CITY/STATE** | **DATE** | **AMOUNT** |
| Mackenzie for Congress Committee | Tree Care Industry Association, Inc., PAC (The Voice for Trees PAC) | Manchester, NH | 6/20/25 | $1,000 |

\[FEC, Mackenzie for Congress Committee, Receipts, Viewed [8/12/25](https://www.fec.gov/data/receipts/?data_type=processed&committee_id=C00846501&contributor_name=C00391508)\]