---
title: Scott Perry Tried To Help Overturn the 2020 Election Results
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-12-11T21:26:35.109Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-12-03T17:53:21.050Z
---

## Overview

In November 2025, Perry went on the radio and called to punish and jail the FBI agents who investigated people like him, Peter Navarro, Jeff Clarke, and Steve Bannon. 

Perry played a [“direct role”](https://www.politico.com/news/2021/10/07/senate-judiciary-trumps-2020-pa-house-republican-515549) in efforts that sought to overturn the 2020 election results. One former Trump aide claimed he played a key role in the efforts and even [asked Trump for a presidential pardon](https://whyy.org/articles/rep-scott-perry-jan-6-cassidy-hutchinson/) following the January 6^th^ attack on the Capitol. Perry was ordered to [turn his phone over to investigators](https://www.cnn.com/2023/12/20/politics/trump-scott-perry-cell-phone-records/index.html) as a result of his [involvement](https://www.politico.com/news/2023/11/29/scott-perry-texts-unsealed-00129195).

## Perry, Who Played A “Direct Role” In Efforts To Overturn The 2020 Election Results, Later Called To Punish The FBI Agents Who Investigated Him

### November 2025: Perry Called To Jail The FBI Agents Who Investigated Him 

**November 2025: Perry Called For People At The FBI Who Investigated People Like Him, Jeff Clarke, Peter Navarro, And Steve Bannon To Be Punished And Put In Jail For At Least The Length Of Trump’s Presidency.** According to an interview Rep. Scott Perry gave on the Jesse Kelly Show, “HOST: Congressman, the FBI, you're right. We kind of need the FBI to look into the crimes, but the FBI is the one that committed a lot of the crimes to begin with. I understand we have new and much better leadership at the top, but that's at the top. There's still so much rot in there. Can we trust the FBI? Because I'll be honest, I don't. PERRY: Well, I don't know that I'm ever going to fully trust the FBI. And unfortunately, I think the rot goes pretty deep. And like you said, you know, the FBI agent that walked up to our rental property on vacation with, you know, where me and my in-laws, my wife, and my two girls were staying. He's been relieved of his job, as have others. But that's not nearly enough. And I think, you know, as they build the case and evidence becomes available, it is my hope that they will start a criminal investigation, not just firing these people, but a criminal investigation for, if nothing else, violation of civil rights, which comes with a pretty heavy federal penalty. And you're right, to a certain extent, to a great extent, we're depending on the FBI and the Department of Justice to do that. And only time will tell. And, of course, you know, we can't be satisfied with the fact that many of us are relieved myself, Jeff Clarke, Peter Navarro, Bannon you know, that we don't have the FBI and the Department of Justice trying to bankrupt us, destroy our reputation and throw us in jail. That's not enough. I mean, we're glad that we're through that part, but we have to send a signal that this can never happen again. And the best way to do that is to make sure that the people that were involved in it get punished with real punishments, which doesn't mean just losing your job at the federal, you know, at some federal agency and then go getting a job at MSNBC or CNN, it means going behind bars for at least the length of the Trump presidency. After that, if there's a Democrat they’re likely to be pardoned because they're going to start this stuff all over again, likely. But these guys have to know there's going to be consequences. And I think that's the only real answer to it.” \[The Jesse Kelly Show, [11/5/25](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/scott-perry-the-jesse-kelly-show-11525/s-AG1DwlbH4EO?si=3985cd6f22014c89904a3edad84aad44&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing)\] (audio) 

### Perry Played a “Direct Role” In Helping Former President Trump Challenge the 2020 Election Results

**A Senate Judiciary Democrats Committee Report Found Perry Played A “Direct Role,” More So Than Other House Republicans, In Helping Former President Trump Challenge The 2020 Election Results.** According to Politico, "A Senate Democratic report released Thursday places Rep. Scott Perry at the center of efforts to help former President Donald Trump overturn the 2020 election results, urging other congressional investigators to further probe his involvement in the runup to the Jan. 6 insurrection. In the last weeks of Trump’s administration, according to the new Senate Judiciary Committee majority report, the former president asked Richard Donoghue — then the Justice Department’s second-in-command — for his cell number so lawmakers concerned about the election could call him. Perry (R-Pa.) was one of the lawmakers who ended up with the principal associate deputy attorney general’s phone number. \[…\] The report indicates that the House Freedom Caucus, a group of hardline conservatives with close ties to Trump, took an active role in helping the president strategize about ways to undercut Joe Biden’s victory. But the report indicates that Perry, more than other House Republicans, took a direct role in attempting to help Trump install loyalists in the Justice Department who would assist in undermining the legitimacy of Joe Biden’s victory." \[Politico, [10/7/21](https://www.politico.com/news/2021/10/07/senate-judiciary-trumps-2020-pa-house-republican-515549)\]

**Perry Joined A “Stop The Steal” Rally In Harrisburg, PA And Went On Fox Business To Call Pennsylvania’s 2020 Election A “Horrific Embarrassment.”** According to the Philadelphia Inquirer, "U.S. Rep. Scott Perry joined a ‘Stop the Steal’ rally in Harrisburg and later went on Fox Business Network to blast Pennsylvania’s election as a ‘horrific embarrassment.’ ‘They say, ‘Oh, you know, 100,000 votes just showed up, and oh by the way, they all just happen to be for Joe Biden,’ he said in one interview on Nov 6." \[Philadelphia Inquirer, [1/12/21](https://www.inquirer.com/politics/pennsylvania/pennsylvania-republicans-false-election-fraud-claims-20210113.html)\]

**Perry Voted Against Certifying Pennsylvania’s 2020 Presidential Election Results.** According to the Philadelphia Inquirer, "Perry, Kelly, Meuser, and Reschenthaler were joined by fellow Pennsylvania Reps. Fred Keller, John Joyce, Lloyd Smucker, and Glenn Thompson in opposing their state’s electoral votes. They raised their objections for weeks leading up to the vote, and again hours after a riot scarred the Capitol. They were among 138 House Republicans, two-thirds of their caucus, who voted to block the state from having a say in the election." \[Philadelphia Inquirer, [1/12/21](https://www.inquirer.com/politics/pennsylvania/pennsylvania-republicans-false-election-fraud-claims-20210113.html)\]

**Perry Signed An Amicus Brief In Support Of A Lawsuit That Sought To Challenge The 2020 Election Results.** According to the Washington Post, "Here are the 106 House Republicans who signed onto an amicus brief in a Texas lawsuit to invalidate millions of votes and the election results from four key swing states that went for President-elect Joe Biden. Of the House GOP leadership, Minority Whip Steve Scalise (La.) signed the brief. \[…\] Rep. Scott Perry, Pa. 10." \[Washington Post, [12/10/20](https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/house-election-republicans-trump/2020/12/10/2cba806e-3b43-11eb-9276-ae0ca72729be_story.html)\]

### Former White House Aide Cassidy Hutchinson Alleged That Perry Was “Central To The Planning Of January 6^th^” 

**HEADLINE: "Rep. Scott Perry ‘Central To Planning Of Jan. 6,’ Says Former Trump White House Aide"** \[WHYY, [10/26/23](https://whyy.org/articles/rep-scott-perry-jan-6-cassidy-hutchinson/)\]

**Former Trump White House Aide Cassidy Hutchinson Alleged That Rep. Scott Perry Played A Key Role In Helping Former President Trump Formulate His Plan To Challenge The 2020 Election Results.** According to WHYY, "Former White House aide Cassidy Hutchinson said Pennsylvania Congressman Scott Perry played a key role in helping former President Trump craft his plan to stay in office following his 2020 election loss.  During an episode of WITF’s The Spark on Wednesday, Hutchinson told host Scott Lamar that Perry was ‘central to the planning of Jan. 6,’ referring to Trump’s plan to stay in office – despite losing the 2020 Election." \[WHYY, [10/26/23](https://whyy.org/articles/rep-scott-perry-jan-6-cassidy-hutchinson/)\]

**Former Trump White House Aide Cassidy Hutchinson Alleged That Rep. Scott Perry Asked Trump For A Presidential Pardon Following The January 6^th^ Attack On The Capitol.** According to WHYY, "She also reiterated that Perry asked Trump for a pardon following the attack on the U.S. Capitol. \[…\] Hutchinson also stood by her testimony given to the House Jan. 6 Committee that Perry asked for a presidential pardon – though she did not clarify whether she heard Perry say that herself." \[WHYY, [10/26/23](https://whyy.org/articles/rep-scott-perry-jan-6-cassidy-hutchinson/)\]

### December 2023: Perry Was Ordered to Turn Over His Communications to The Special Counsel Investigation of Trump’s Efforts to Overturn the 2020 Election Results

**December 2023: A Judge Ordered Perry To Turn Over More Than 1,600 Communications Found On Perry’s Cell Phone To Special Counsel Jack Smith’s Investigation Into Trump’s Efforts To Overturn The 2020 Elections Results.** According to CNN, "The special counsel’s office can access more than 1,600 communications found on Rep. Scott Perry’s cell phone, including some about his interest in assisting former President Donald Trump’s efforts to overturn the 2020 election, according to a new court decision on Tuesday. The development comes months after special counsel Jack Smith’s office indicted Trump for leading a conspiracy to obstruct the vote, and following a protracted, often-secretive, court battle over which of Perry’s cell phone messages could be accessible to investigators.  The court decision releases the bulk of Perry’s messages to investigators after months of delays because of legal appeals around investigative access to congressional records, which provide special constitutional protections for the work of members of Congress." \[CNN, [12/20/23](https://www.cnn.com/2023/12/20/politics/trump-scott-perry-cell-phone-records/index.html)\]

#### Perry Had Numerous Contacts With Trump-Allied Officials Who Were Seeking To Challenge The 2020 Election Results

**HEADLINE: "Judge Orders Rep. Scott Perry To Turn Over Cellphone Records In Jan. 6 Probe"** \[NBC News, [12/19/23](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/congress/judge-orders-scott-perry-turn-cellphone-records-jan-6-probe-rcna130543)\]

**12/30/20: Perry Texted With Jeff Clark As President Trump Was Considering Installing Clark To Lead The Justice Department.** According to Politico, "At 11:08 p.m. on Dec. 30, 2020, days before Donald Trump prepared to install Jeff Clark atop the Justice Department amid his frenzied push to remain in power, Clark got a text from one key ally, Rep. Scott Perry.  ‘POTUS seems very happy with your response. I read it just as you dictated,’ Perry (R-Pa.) texted the senior Justice Department official. ‘I’m praying. This makes me quite nervous. And wonder if I’m worthy or ready,’ Clark replied.  ‘You are the man. I have confirmed it. God does what he does for a reason,’ Perry continued." \[Politico, [11/29/23](https://www.politico.com/news/2023/11/29/scott-perry-texts-unsealed-00129195)\]

-   **Jeff Clark Supported President Trump’s False Voter Fraud Claims, But Trump Eventually Backed Off His Plan To Make Clark Acting Attorney General.** According to Politico, "At the time, Clark was supporting Trump’s false claims of voter fraud — and Trump, hoping to harness the Justice Department in his bid to overturn the 2020 election, was nearing a decision to appoint Clark as acting attorney general. He ultimately backed off amid a high-level rebellion at DOJ and in the White House. But the newly disclosed text messages — contained in a court filing that appears to have been erroneously made public on Wednesday — show that Clark was girding for the appointment, bolstered by support from Perry, a conservative leader in Congress." \[Politico, [11/29/23](https://www.politico.com/news/2023/11/29/scott-perry-texts-unsealed-00129195)\]

**12/12/20: Perry Texted With RNC Chair Ronna McDaniel About Efforts To Challenge Joe Biden’s Victory In The 2020 Presidential Election.** According to Politico, "The newly disclosed documents reveal an extraordinary web of communications between Perry, who is now the chair of the House Freedom Caucus, and key figures in Trump’s orbit. They include: A Dec. 12, 2020, text exchange with Republican National Committee Chair Ronna McDaniel discussing efforts to challenge Joe Biden’s victory in the election." \[Politico, [11/29/23](https://www.politico.com/news/2023/11/29/scott-perry-texts-unsealed-00129195)\]

**12/30/20-1/5/21: Perry Exchanged Text Messages With Former DOJ Colleague Robert Gasaway About A Plan To Have Vice President Pence “Admit Testimony” Prior To The Counting Of The Electoral Votes.** " According to Politico, “The newly disclosed documents reveal an extraordinary web of communications between Perry, who is now the chair of the House Freedom Caucus, and key figures in Trump’s orbit. They include: \[…\] A series of exchanges between Perry and a former DOJ colleague, Robert Gasaway, between Dec. 30, 2020, and Jan. 5, 2021, in which Perry embraced a plan to have then-Vice President Mike Pence ‘admit testimony’ prior to the counting of electoral votes on Jan. 6, 2021. Perry agreed to ‘sell\[\] the idea’ with a call to Trump, Pence and Trump adviser John Eastman, but Perry later alerted Gasaway that Pence’s chief of staff, Marc Short, ‘will not allow access.’” \[Politico, [11/29/23](https://www.politico.com/news/2023/11/29/scott-perry-texts-unsealed-00129195)\]

**11/12/20: Perry Texted Trump Campaign Lawyer Alex Cannon Advising The Campaign On Challenges To Election Results In Pennsylvania, And Had Contacts With Other Trump-Affiliated Lawyers, Like Jenna Ellis.** " According to Politico, “The newly disclosed documents reveal an extraordinary web of communications between Perry, who is now the chair of the House Freedom Caucus, and key figures in Trump’s orbit. They include: \[…\] A Nov, 12, 2020 text to Trump campaign lawyer Alex Cannon advising the campaign on challenges to the election results in Pennsylvania, as well as numerous other contacts with Trump-affiliated lawyers Jenna Ellis, Boris Epshteyn and Justin Clark." \[Politico, [11/29/23](https://www.politico.com/news/2023/11/29/scott-perry-texts-unsealed-00129195)\]

**Perry Texted With Pennsylvania State Legislators, Including Doug Mastriano, About Ways To Challenge Pennsylvania’s 2020 Presidential Election Results.** According to Politico, "The newly disclosed documents reveal an extraordinary web of communications between Perry, who is now the chair of the House Freedom Caucus, and key figures in Trump’s orbit. They include: \[…\] Exchanges with numerous Pennsylvania state legislators, including Doug Mastriano, strategizing ways to challenge the state’s election results." \[Politico, [11/29/23](https://www.politico.com/news/2023/11/29/scott-perry-texts-unsealed-00129195)\]

**Perry Texted With “Cybersecurity Individuals” Working With Sidney Powell To Challenge The 2020 Presidential Election Results.** According to Politico, "The newly disclosed documents reveal an extraordinary web of communications between Perry, who is now the chair of the House Freedom Caucus, and key figures in Trump’s orbit. They include: \[…\] Texts with ‘cybersecurity individuals’ working with attorney Sidney Powell to challenge the election results, including Phil Waldron. In one exchange, Perry emailed former Trump National Security Council staffer Rich Higgins to relay an ‘incredibly spooky’ allegation that the U.S. Army had confiscated election servers in Germany to help cover up fraud." \[Politico, [11/29/23](https://www.politico.com/news/2023/11/29/scott-perry-texts-unsealed-00129195)\]