---
title: Department Of Commerce
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-09-24T20:27:35.415Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-24T20:27:31.155Z
---

# Department Of Commerce

### Funding

**2022: Schweikert Voted Against Providing \$9.9 Billion For The Commerce Department, Including \$570 Million To The International Trade Administration And \$373.5 Million To The Economic Development Administration.** In March 2022, according to Congressional Quarterly, Schweikert voted against the first portion of the Fiscal 2022 Omnibus Appropriations, which would "provide \$9.9 billion for the Commerce Department, including \$570 million for the International Trade Administration and \$373.5 million for the Economic Development Administration;" The vote was on the motion to concur in the Senate amendment with a House amendment. The bill was divided and this vote was the first portion of the bill. The House concurred with the Senate by a vote of 361-69. After resolving differences, the bill was sent to the President and became law. \[House Vote 65, [3/9/22](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2022/roll065.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [3/9/22](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2022/H/65?3); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 2471](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/2471/actions)\]

### Supply Chain Resiliency Program

**2024: Schweikert Voted Against Establishing A Supply Chain Resiliency Program Under The Department Of Commerce With Regular Reports To Congress And Against Requiring The Commerce Department To Designate Critical Industries Every Four Years.** In May 2024, Schweikert voted against , according to Congressional Quarterly, "the bill, as amended, that would require the assistant secretary of Commerce to direct the Office of Industry and Analysis to promote U.S. leadership in industries, supply chains and emerging technologies that are critical for U.S. national and economic security. It would require the assistant secretary, within 180 days of the bill\'s enactment, to establish in the Commerce Department a supply chain resiliency program and crisis response program to map, monitor and model such supply chains and identify high priority supply chain gaps and vulnerabilities. It also would require the assistant secretary, within 270 days of the bill\'s enactment, to designate critical industries, supply chains and goods and update them at least every four years. It would require the assistant secretary, within one year of the bill\'s enactment and every two years thereafter, to submit to the congressional commerce committees and post online a report with a national strategy and review on domestic critical supply chain resiliency and manufacturing. It would terminate the supply chain program within seven years of the bill\'s enactment. It also would require the Commerce Department, within two years of the bill\'s enactment, to submit to Congress a report with recommendations to enhance department activities related to critical supply chain resilience and manufacturing innovation." The House passed the bill by a vote of 390 to 19. \[House Vote 211, [5/15/24](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2024/roll211.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [5/15/24](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2024/H/211?11); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 6571](http://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/6571/all-actions)\]

### Tourism And Travel Strategy And Goals

**2022: Schweikert Voted Against Creating A Senate-Confirmed Position Of Assistant Secretary Of Commerce For Travel And Tourism, Who Would Establish International Tourism Goals And Evaluate Policy To Increase Domestic Travel.** In September 2022, according to Congressional Quarterly, Schweikert voted against the Visit America Act, which would "create a Senate-confirmed position of assistant secretary of Commerce for Travel and Tourism. Among other duties, it would require the assistant secretary to establish annual goals for international visitation to the U.S. and the value of travel and tourism commerce; make recommendations to meet such goals; evaluate policy options to grow the domestic travel industry; work with the Labor Department on improving travel and tourism workforce and industry data; and develop a strategy to help the industry recover from the COVID-19 pandemic and future disruptive events. It would also statutorily establish the Travel and Tourism Advisory Board to advise the Commerce Department on matters relating to travel and tourism and require the Commerce Department to develop and submit to Congress, every 10 years, a travel and tourism strategy." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote of 325-93. The Senate did not take substantive action on the bill. \[House Vote 466, [9/29/22](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2022/roll466.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [9/29/22](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2022/H/466?17); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 6965](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/6965/all-actions)\]