---
title: Jen Kiggans Sided with Predatory Lenders Over Virginia Service Members
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-12-09T22:16:18.062Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-06-03T13:48:12.040Z
---

## Overview

While serving in the Virginia State Senate in 2020, Kiggans [voted against](https://vadogwood.com/2024/05/20/kiggans-voted-2020-against-reforms-for-predatory-payday-lenders/) a bill that sought to crackdown on predatory payday lenders, which were known to target service members. Prior to voting against the bill, Kiggans’ campaign [accepted](https://www.wavy.com/news/politics/virginia-politics/truth-tracker-kiggans-refuses-to-explain-senate-bill-421/) $20,000 in campaign donations from GOPAC, which had raised at least $100,000 of its money from payday lenders. When confronted about the vote, Kiggans repeatedly refused to explain herself and quickly [walked out of the interview](https://www.wavy.com/news/politics/virginia-politics/truth-tracker-kiggans-refuses-to-explain-senate-bill-421/).

## **2020: Kiggans Voted Against Cracking Down On Predatory Payday Lenders That Targeted Active Duty Military**

### **2020: While Serving As A Virginia State Senator, Kiggans Voted Against Cracking Down On Predatory Payday Lenders** 

**HEADLINE: "Jen Kiggans Voted In 2020 Against Reforms For Predatory Payday Lenders Who Target Military Members"** \[VA Dogwood, [_5/20/24_](https://vadogwood.com/2024/05/20/kiggans-voted-2020-against-reforms-for-predatory-payday-lenders/)\]

**2020: While In The Virginia Senate, Kiggans Voted Against A Bill To Cap Fees And Interest Rates For Payday Lenders And That Established Affordable Payback Plans For Borrowers.** According to VA Dogwood, "While serving in the Virginia Senate, Kiggans voted against a bill, the Virginia Fairness in Lending Act of 2020, aimed at cracking down on payday lending by capping fees and interest rates and requiring affordable payments be spread out over time." \[VA Dogwood, [_5/20/24_](https://vadogwood.com/2024/05/20/kiggans-voted-2020-against-reforms-for-predatory-payday-lenders/)\]

#### **_2019: Prior To Voting, Kiggans Accepted $20,000 In Campaign Donations From A PAC Funded Partially By Payday Lenders_**

**2019: Kiggans Accepted $20,000 In Campaign Donations From GOPAC, Which Had Raised $100,000 From Payday Lenders.** According to 10 On Your Side, "However, it is true. Campaign finance reports show Kiggans took $20,000 in 2019, and before the vote on SB 421 in April 2020, from the GOPAC Election Fund when she was running for State Senate. And it is TRUE that at least $100,000 was contributed to that GOPAC Fund from these payday lenders: Amscot Financial Check Into Cash, Inc. Advance America" \[10 On Your Side, [_10/25/22_](https://www.wavy.com/news/politics/virginia-politics/truth-tracker-kiggans-refuses-to-explain-senate-bill-421/)\] 

-   **2022: Kiggans Claimed She Never Accepted Money From Payday Lenders.** According to 10 On Your Side, "10 On Your Side asked Kiggans about money from special interests. ‘I never took money for my campaign from these organizations, from those payday lenders.’ However, it is true. Campaign finance reports show Kiggans took $20,000 in 2019, and before the vote on SB 421 in April 2020, from the GOPAC Election Fund when she was running for State Senate." \[10 On Your Side, [_10/25/22_](https://www.wavy.com/news/politics/virginia-politics/truth-tracker-kiggans-refuses-to-explain-senate-bill-421/)\]

### **2022: Kiggans Repeatedly Refused To Answer Questions About Why She Voted Against Cracking Down On Predatory Payday Lenders** 

**2022: VoteVets Aired An Ad Criticizing Kiggans’ Vote In Favor Of Payday Lenders As Harmful To Military Families.** According to VA Dogwood, "Kiggans faced questions about her vote against the small loan lending reforms when she ran for Congress in 2022. A political action committee called VoteVets ran an attack ad against Kiggans, saying she voted against cracking down on predatory lenders and their unfair practices that especially hurt military families. The 2nd District Kiggans represents has a large population of veterans and service members." \[VA Dogwood, [_5/20/24_](https://vadogwood.com/2024/05/20/kiggans-voted-2020-against-reforms-for-predatory-payday-lenders/)\]

**HEADLINE: "Truth Tracker: Kiggans Refuses To Explain Vote On Predatory Loan Bill"** \[10 On Your Side, [_10/25/22_](https://www.wavy.com/news/politics/virginia-politics/truth-tracker-kiggans-refuses-to-explain-senate-bill-421/)\] (video)

**Kiggans Repeatedly Refused To Answer Questions About Why She Voted Against Cracking Down On Predatory Payday Lenders.** According to 10 On Your Side, "Try as we did in our allotted five minutes to talk to her, Kiggans refused to answer 10 On Your Side’s inquiry and to explain why she voted for Senate Bill 421. We tried repeatedly to get her to just explain her vote.   ‘But back to Senate Bill 421, why did you vote against the Virginia Fairness and Lending Act which you did?’ Kiggan’s response was, ‘that bill is not even referenced in the ad.’ That is TRUE:  Senate Bill 421 is not mentioned, but the ad is on Predatory Lending and Senate Bill 421. Again we asked, ‘why did you vote against SB421?’ Her answer: ‘I would never vote for anything that I thought would be considered to be hurtful or harmful to veterans.’ Obviously, VoteVets did think her vote was harmful on this issue, and that is why they put the ad on air. We asked again. ‘I need you to answer why you voted, the reasons, against SB 421?’ Kiggan’s answer: ‘I say 1 out 6 of our enlisted sailors cannot pay their bills right now.’ That would lead her into a criticism of the current economy.   We pointed out to Senator Kiggans that those who are for SB 421 argued the bill would help sailors who are on fixed incomes with lower interest rates.   The ad goes on. ‘\[It\] turns out Kiggans took all that money from special interests funded by the payday loan industry. Jen Kiggans is a fraud.’   ‘So that ad, in particular, calling me a fraud is very hurtful to me as a veteran,’ said Kiggans.  10 On Your Side asked Kiggans about money from special interests.   ‘I never took money for my campaign from these organizations, from those payday lenders.’   However, it is true. Campaign finance reports show Kiggans took $20,000 in 2019, and before the vote on SB 421 in April 2020, from the GOPAC Election Fund when she was running for State Senate.    And it is TRUE that at least $100,000 was contributed to that GOPAC Fund from these payday lenders:      Amscot Financial  Check Into Cash, Inc. Advance America  But, it is also TRUE that those lenders did not contribute directly to her campaign, and she would only give us five minutes for the interview.  ‘Senator, again, can you please answer that question? Why did you vote against it? Why did you vote against SB 421?’ Her non-answer, again: ‘I would not do anything to harm our veteran population.’ And then we heard the five-minute timer go off, at which point Senator Kiggans gets up and walks away, dragging the microphone still strapped to her dress.   She never answered the question about SB 421." \[10 On Your Side, [_10/25/22_](https://www.wavy.com/news/politics/virginia-politics/truth-tracker-kiggans-refuses-to-explain-senate-bill-421/)\] (video)

### **Payday Lenders Were Known To Target Active Duty Military** 

**Payday Lenders Were Known To Target Military Bases.** According to VA Dogwood, "While the bill did not apply only to loans to service members and veterans, they are frequently represented among payday loan customers and payday lenders are known to target military bases. An estimated 44% of active duty military used payday loans in 2017, according to a Javelin Strategy & Research report cited by Military Families Magazine." \[VA Dogwood, [_5/20/24_](https://vadogwood.com/2024/05/20/kiggans-voted-2020-against-reforms-for-predatory-payday-lenders/)\]

**2017: An Estimated 44 Percent Of Active Duty Military Used Payday Loans.** According to VA Dogwood, "While the bill did not apply only to loans to service members and veterans, they are frequently represented among payday loan customers and payday lenders are known to target military bases. An estimated 44% of active duty military used payday loans in 2017, according to a Javelin Strategy & Research report cited by Military Families Magazine." \[VA Dogwood, [_5/20/24_](https://vadogwood.com/2024/05/20/kiggans-voted-2020-against-reforms-for-predatory-payday-lenders/)\]