---
title: Tuition Tax Waiver
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-09-24T20:52:55.024Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-24T20:52:51.164Z
---

# Tuition Tax Waiver

### Repeal

**2017: Schweikert Voted For The House GOP's 2017 Tax Reform Plan Which Significantly Cut Taxes For The Rich And Corporations And Removed The Tax Waiver For Tuition Waivers.** In November 2017, Schweikert voted for reconciliation legislation which significantly altered the federal tax code. According to Congressional Quarterly, "The bill substantially restructures the U.S. tax code to simplify the code and reduce taxes on individuals, corporations and small businesses. For individuals, it consolidates the current seven tax brackets down to four and eliminates or restricts many tax credits and deductions, including by eliminating the deduction for state and local income taxes and limiting the deduction for property taxes to \$10,000 and the interest deduction for a home mortgage to the first \$500,000 worth of a loan. \[...\] On the business side, it reduces the corporate tax from 35% to 20% and establishes a 'territorial' tax system that would exempt most income derived overseas from U.S. corporate taxation. It allows businesses to immediately expense 100% of the cost of assets acquired and placed into service, and for small businesses it raises the Section 179 expensing limit to \$5 million for five years. It also establishes a 25% rate for a portion of pass-through business income that would otherwise have to be paid at the ordinary individual tax level, and for small businesses where an individual would receive less than \$150,000 in pass-through income it taxes the first \$75,000 of that income at a 9% rate." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote of 227 to 205. President Trump later signed an amended version of the bill into law. \[House Vote 637, [11/16/17](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2017/roll637.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [11/15/17](http://www.cq.com/doc/har-5217156?4); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 1](https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/1/all-actions)\]

-   **Legislation Counts Tuition Waivers As Income, Thereby Significantly Increasing The Tax Burden For Certain Graduate Students.** According to CNBC, "The House Republican tax plan includes a \$1.5 trillion corporate tax cut and a giant tax hike on graduate students. Tamar Oostrom, who is currently earning her Ph.D. in economics at MIT, has been crunching the numbers to determine how the current House Republican bill would affect the taxes paid by graduate students. \[...\] Grad students like Oostrom often afford advanced degrees by earning a tuition waiver. In these instances, graduate students will work for the university by teaching classes and/or conducting research in exchange for free tuition. According to the American Council on Education, roughly 145,000 graduate students receive this kind of tuition reduction. Some programs provide graduate students with a modest stipend for food and housing. For instance, Ryan Hill, a fourth-year Ph.D. student at MIT, receives a \$30,000 living stipend and a tuition waiver allowing him to forego paying \$50,000 in tuition. He currently pays taxes on his \$30,000 stipend, but under the proposed House tax bill, his tuition waiver would also be taxed --- meaning he would be taxed as if he was earning \$80,000 a year." \[CNBC, [11/16/17](https://www.cnbc.com/2017/11/16/house-gop-tax-plan-could-increase-taxes-for-grad-students-by-400-percent.html)\]