---
title: Human Trafficking
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-09-24T20:36:48.298Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-24T20:36:43.813Z
---

# Human Trafficking

### Additional Fines For Trafficking And Sex Crimes

**2022: Schweikert Voted To Extend An Additional Fine Of \$5,000 On Individuals Convicted Of Human Trafficking And Sexual Abuse And Exploitation Crimes Through September 30th, 2022.** In September 2022, according to Congressional Quarterly, Schweikert voted for a bill that would "extend for 19 days, to Sept. 30, 2022, an additional fine of \$5,000 on individuals convicted of crimes related to human trafficking and sexual abuse and exploitation. The fines are deposited in a Health and Human Services Department fund to assist victims of domestic trafficking." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote of 415-0, thus the bill was sent to President Biden for final signage. President Biden signed the bill and it ultimately became law. \[House Vote 421, [9/13/22](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2022/roll421.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [9/13/22](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2022/H/421?20); Congressional Actions, [S. 4785](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/senate-bill/4785/all-actions)\]

### Prevention Funding

**2024: Schweikert Voted To Reauthorize Human Trafficking Prevention Funding Through FY 2028.** In February 2024, Schweikert voted for , according to Congressional Quarterly, "the bill, as amended, that would reauthorize various programs and activities under a 2000 trafficking victims and violence prevention law through fiscal 2028, including \$116.4 million annually for State Department assistance for human trafficking prevention efforts. It also would provide, annually from fiscal years 2024 through 2028, \$25 million for assistance to victims of trafficking, \$77 million to the attorney general for assistance to victims and \$22 million for the U.S. Agency for International Development. It also would rename the Health and Human Services Department\'s human trafficking education grant program as the 'Frederick Douglass Human Trafficking Prevention Education Grants Program' and set new guidelines for selecting grantees. It also would permit HHS to implement a Human Trafficking Survivors Employment and Education Program to prevent the re-exploitation of trafficking victims." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote of 414 to 11. \[House Vote 41, [2/13/24](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2024/roll041.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [2/13/24](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2024/H/41?6); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 5856](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/5856/all-actions)\]

**2022: Schweikert Voted To Authorize Annual Funding Through FY 2026 For International Human Trafficking Prevention Efforts, Awareness Programs And Victims Assistance, The Human Trafficking Hotline, And To Make Passports Of Registered Child Sex Offenders To Alert Destination Nations Of Their Travels.** In July 2022, according to Congressional Quarterly, Schweikert voted for the Frederick Douglass Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act of 2022, which would "include various provisions related to preventing and addressing human trafficking. For existing programs related to human trafficking, it would authorize, annually for fiscal years 2022 through 2026, \$89.5 million for State Department international human trafficking prevention efforts; \$77 million for Justice Department aid to victims; \$25 million for Health and Human Services Department awareness programs and victim assistance, including \$5 million for the national human trafficking hotline; \$16 million for the State Department Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking; and \$6 million for the State Department to mark the passports of registered child sex offenders to alert destination nations in advance of the individual\'s intent to travel to that nation. Among other provisions, it would require rename an HHS grant program as the 'Frederick Douglass Human Trafficking Prevention Education Grants Program' and require the program to prioritize local educational agencies serving areas with high rates of child sex or labor trafficking; authorize an HHS program to support employment and education of human trafficking victims; and reauthorize U.S. advisory council on human trafficking through Sept. 30, 2031." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote 401-20, thus the bill was sent to Senate. The Senate did not take substantive action on the bill. \[House Vote 388, [7/26/22](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2022/roll388.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [7/26/22](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2022/H/388?8); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 6552](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/6552/all-actions)\]