---
title: January 6th Insurrection
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-09-24T20:37:12.775Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-24T20:37:08.313Z
---

# January 6th Insurrection

### Capitol Police Awards

**2021: Schweikert Voted To Award Congressional Gold Medals To The U.S. Capitol Police For Their Bravery In Defending The Capitol During The January 6th Insurrection.** In March 2021, Schweikert voted for a bill which would, according to Congressional Quarterly, "award three congressional gold medals to the U.S. Capitol Police and those who protected the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6, 2021. It would require the presentation of one medal each to the U.S. Capitol Police and the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia for display at their headquarters, and one medal to the Smithsonian Institution for display and research, along with a plaque listing the other law enforcement agencies that participated in protecting the Capitol." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote of 413-12. The Senate did not take substantive action on the bill. \[House Vote 87, [3/17/21](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2021/roll087.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [3/17/21](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2021/H/87?7); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 1085](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/1085/actions)\]

-   **Some Republicans Had Issues With Using The Term "Insurrection" In The Bill Awarding Congressional Gold Medals To Capitol Police.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "Some Republicans who didn't co-sponsor the bill said they had concerns about the language, including the use of the term 'insurrection' and calling the Capitol a 'temple.' A dozen ended up voting 'no.'" \[Congressional Quarterly, [3/17/21](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-6164977?9)\]

-   **The Legislation Honored The Three Police Officers Who Died Due To The January 6th Insurrection.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "Her bill also names the three officers who died: Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick, who died of injuries suffered in the attack, and Capitol Police Officer Howard Liebengood and D.C. Metro Police Officer Jeffrey Smith, who both died by suicide after the events of Jan. 6." \[Congressional Quarterly, [3/17/21](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-6164977?9)\]

### House Committee

**2021: Schweikert Voted Against Establishing A Special House Committee To Investigate The January 6th Insurrection.** In June 2021, Schweikert voted against a bill which would, according to Congressional Quarterly, "establish a special committee in the House of Representatives to investigate facts and causes related to the Jan. 6, 2021, 'domestic terrorist attack' on the U.S. Capitol; examine and evaluate evidence developed by relevant federal, state and local governmental agencies; and build upon the investigations of other entities. It would require the committee to investigate facts and circumstances of the attack related to intelligence and law enforcement agency activities and factors contributing to the attack, including online platforms and foreign influence operations; identify and analyze the causes of and lessons learned from the attack with regard to law enforcement operations and security protocol at the Capitol; and submit to Congress reports including findings and conclusions of its investigations, legislative recommendations, and recommendations for corrective measures. The resolution would authorize the speaker of the House to appoint 13 members to the committee, including five members after consultation with the minority leader. Among other provisions, it would authorize the committee chair to issue subpoenas, authorize such sums as may be necessary for committee expenses, and specify that the committee would terminate 30 days after filing its final report to Congress." The vote was on passage. The House passed the resolution by a vote of 222-190. \[House Vote 197, [6/30/21](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2021/roll197.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [6/30/21](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2021/H/197?55); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 503](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-resolution/503/actions)\]

### National Commission

**2021: Schweikert Voted Against Establishing A National Commission That Would Investigate The January 6th Attack On The Capitol.** In May 2021, Schweikert voted against the National Commission to Investigate the January 6 Attack on the United States Capitol Complex Act which would, according to Congressional Quarterly, "establish a national commission to investigate facts and causes related to the Jan. 6, 2021, 'domestic terrorist attack' on the U.S. Capitol; examine and evaluate evidence developed by relevant federal, state and local governmental agencies; and build upon the investigations of other entities. It would require the commission to investigate facts and circumstances of the attack related to intelligence and law enforcement agency activities and factors contributing to the attack, including online platforms and foreign influence operations; identify and analyze the causes of and lessons learned from the attack with regard to law enforcement operations and security protocol at the Capitol; and submit to the president and Congress reports containing findings and recommendations for corrective measures that are agreed to by a majority of the commission. The commission would be composed of ten members, evenly chosen by the majority and minority parties, who have national recognition and significant experience in at least two subject areas related to the attack, such as law enforcement, intelligence, law, civil rights and counterterrorism. Among other provisions, the bill would authorize the commission to issue subpoenas and hold hearings and specify that the commission would submit its final report by the end of 2021 and terminate 60 days after submitting the report." The vote was on passage. The House passed the bill by a vote of 252-175. The Senate did not take substantive action on the bill. \[House Vote 154, [5/19/21](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2021/roll154.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [5/19/21](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2021/H/154?2); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 3233](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-bill/3233/actions)\]