---
title: Joe Biden
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-09-24T20:21:08.564Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-24T20:21:03.968Z
---

# Joe Biden

### Impeachment

**2023: Schweikert Effectively Voted To Impeach President Joe Biden.** In December 2023, according to Congressional Quarterly, Schweikert voted for "the resolution that would outline procedures and authorize the ongoing investigation by House committees related to the impeachment inquiry into President Joe Biden. Among other provisions, it would authorize continued investigations by the House Judiciary, Oversight and Accountability, and Ways and Means committees, and authorizes hearings and the public disclosure of depositions of witnesses. It would provide for the House Oversight and Accountability and Ways and Means committees to prepare and send to the House Judiciary Committee reports on their findings for consideration by the House Judiciary Committee --- including for possible development of articles of impeachment by the committee. It would require the House Judiciary Committee to conduct any impeachment proceedings according to specified procedures, including those that provide for participation by the president and his legal counsel. The resolution would also provide for the automatic adoption of the resolution (H Res 917), which effectively infers House approval for the initiation of legal action to enforce subpoenas by the three committees in federal court." The vote was on passage. The House passed the resolution by a vote of 221 to 212. \[House Vote 720, [12/13/23](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2023/roll720.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [12/13/23](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2023/H/720?63); Congressional Actions, [H.Res. 918](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-resolution/918/all-actions?q=%7b%22search%22%3A%22h.res.+918%22%7d&s=3&r=2)\]

-   **Republicans Called For An Investigation Regarding President Biden's Involvement In Business Deals Led By Hunter Biden.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "Former Speaker Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., unilaterally launched an informal impeachment probe in September, contending House Republicans were looking into whether then-Vice President Joe Biden and son Hunter Biden engaged in an influence-peddling campaign that allowed them to trade access to the father's senior Obama administration post for sizable profits in global business deals inked by the son." \[Congressional Quarterly, [12/13/23](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-7901339?59)\]

**2023: Schweikert Effectively Voted To Impeach President Joe Biden.** In December 2023, according to Congressional Quarterly, Schweikert voted for "motion to order the previous question (thus ending debate and possibility of amendment) on the resolution (H Res 918) that would outline procedures and authorize the ongoing investigation by House committees related to the impeachment inquiry into President Joe Biden. Among other provisions, it would authorize continued investigations by the House Judiciary, Oversight and Accountability, and Ways and Means committees, and authorizes hearings and the public disclosure of depositions of witnesses. It would provide for the House Oversight and Accountability and Ways and Means committees to prepare and send to the House Judiciary Committee reports on their findings for consideration by the House Judiciary Committee --- including for possible development of articles of impeachment by the committee. It would require the House Judiciary Committee to conduct any impeachment proceedings according to specified procedures, including those that provide for participation by the president and his legal counsel. The resolution would also provide for the automatic adoption of the resolution (H Res 917), which effectively infers House approval for the initiation of legal action to enforce subpoenas by the three committees in federal court." The vote was on the motion to order the previous question. The House agreed to the motion by a vote of 220 to 212. \[House Vote 719, [12/13/23](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2023/roll719.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [12/13/23](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2023/H/719?56); Congressional Actions, [H.Res. 918](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-resolution/918/all-actions?q=%7b%22search%22%3A%22h.res.+918%22%7d&s=3&r=2); Congressional Actions, [H.Res. 917](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-resolution/917/all-actions?q=%7b%22search%22%3A%22h.res.+917%22%7d&s=4&r=1)\]

-   **Republicans Called For An Investigation Regarding President Biden's Involvement In Business Deals Led By Hunter Biden.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "Former Speaker Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., unilaterally launched an informal impeachment probe in September, contending House Republicans were looking into whether then-Vice President Joe Biden and son Hunter Biden engaged in an influence-peddling campaign that allowed them to trade access to the father's senior Obama administration post for sizable profits in global business deals inked by the son." \[Congressional Quarterly, [12/13/23](https://plus.cq.com/doc/news-7901339?59)\]