---
title: House Rules
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-09-24T20:20:25.415Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-24T20:20:20.985Z
---

# House Rules

**2021: Schweikert Voted Against Establishing The House Rules For The 117th Congress, Which Authorized Certain Legislation Exemptions From Budgetary Requirements, Established And Authorized Certain Committees, Protected The Identities Of Potential Whistleblowers, And Preserved COVID Protocols.** In January 2021, Schweikert voted against the House rules package which would, according to Congressional Quarterly, "establish the rules of the House for the 117th Congress. It would modify rules providing for a motion to recommit a measure to a committee, removing language that allows such motions to include instructions to report a measure back with amendments. It would also make such motions non-debatable. It would authorize the House Budget Committee chair to exempt legislation addressing the economic or public health consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic and legislation addressing the consequences of climate change from certain budgetary requirements, including discretionary spending caps and pay-as-you-go rules. Among other provisions, it would establish a Select Committee on Economic Disparity and Fairness in Growth; reauthorize a number of select committees established in the 116th Congress, including the Select Committee on the Climate Crisis; and codify the Office of Diversity and Inclusion established in the 116th Congress. It would prohibit any House member, officer, or employee from 'knowingly and willfully' disclosing a whistleblower\'s identity in most circumstances. It would require the House Ethics Commission to report to the House by the end of 2021 any recommended amendments to the House code of conduct related to discipline for knowingly disseminating distorted or manipulated media with the intent to mislead the public. It would bar former members from the House floor if they have been convicted of a crime related to their election to or service in the House. It would also extend procedures authorizing remote voting by proxy for House members and remote committee proceedings during the COVID-19 public health emergency, and it would require the House Administration Committee to identify 'operable and secure' technology that could be used to conduct remote voting." The vote was on passage. The House passed the resolution by a vote of 217-206. \[House Vote 8, [1/4/21](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2021/roll008.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [1/4/21](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2021/H/8?18); Congressional Actions, [H. Res. 8](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-resolution/8/all-actions)\]

### Elections Administration

**2021: Schweikert Effectively Voted For An Amendment That Would Assert That States Have Authority To Conduct Their Own Elections And Congress' Role Is To Provide Support To Ensure Fair And Safe Elections.** In January 2021, according to Congressional Quarterly, Schweikert voted against tabling, and thus killing, the "motion to refer the resolution to a select committee composed of the majority and minority leaders with instructions to report it back to the House with an amendment that would require the House Administration Committee to report to the House no later than Jan. 31, 2021, a bill related to federal election administration. It would require the bill to state that states have 'primary authority' to conduct elections and that Congress' 'proper role' is to provide support to states and 'ensure fair administration of and voter confidence in' the administration of federal elections. It would also require the bill to include provisions that would extend federal baseline standards for ballot signature verification, 'promote certainty' in election results and provide for oversight of the use of federal funds to administer federal elections." The vote was on a motion to table. The House agreed to the motion, thus killing the motion to refer the resolution, by a vote of 214-196. \[House Vote 5, [1/4/21](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2021/roll005.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [1/4/21](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2021/H/5?19); Congressional Actions, [H. Res. 8](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-resolution/8/all-actions)\]

### House Mask Requirements

**2021: Schweikert Effectively Voted To Allow Vaccinated Individuals To Not Wear A Mask Inside The Chamber And Committee Meetings.** In May 2021, Schweikert voted against tabling, and thus killing, a resolution which would, according to Congressional Quarterly, "direct the attending physician to take 'timely action' to provide updated guidance on mask wearing in the chamber and committee meeting spaces of the House of Representatives for members and staff who are vaccinated against COVID-19, consistent with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention public guidance released on May 13, 2021." The vote was on a motion to table. The House adopted the motion by a vote of 218-210. \[House Vote 153, [5/19/21](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2021/roll153.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [5/19/21](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2021/H/153?15); Congressional Actions, [H.Res. 414](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-resolution/414/actions)\]

### Removing Provision Regarding Climate Legislation

**2021: Schweikert Effectively Voted For An Amendment That Would Remove Authorization For The Exemption Of Legislation Regarding Climate Change Consequences From Certain Budgetary Requirements.** In January 2021, according to Congressional Quarterly, Schweikert voted for the "motion to recommit the rules package for the 117th Congress to a select committee composed of the majority and minority leaders with instructions to report it back immediately with an amendment that would strike from the resolution a provision that would authorize the House Budget Committee chair to exempt legislation addressing the economic, environmental or public health consequences of climate change from certain budgetary requirements, including discretionary spending caps and pay-as-you-go rules." The vote was on a motion to recommit. The House rejected the motion by a vote of 203-217. \[House Vote 7, [1/4/21](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2021/roll007.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [1/4/21](https://plus.cq.com/vote/2021/H/7?16); Congressional Actions, [H. Res. 8](https://www.congress.gov/bill/117th-congress/house-resolution/8/all-actions)\]