---
title: Trump Transition
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-09-24T20:23:39.910Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-24T20:23:35.140Z
---

# Trump Transition

### Reimbursing New York City For Security Costs

**2016: Schweikert Voted For A Continuing Resolution Funding The Government Through April 28, 2017; Legislation Included Expedited Senate Consideration For A Waiver For President-Elect Trump To Appoint James Mattis The Defense Secretary, And \$7 Million Of The \$35 Million That New York City Requested For Security Reimbursements For Trump Tower.** In December 2016, Schweikert voted for an FY 2017 continuing resolution funding the government through April 28, 2017. According to Congressional Quarterly, the legislation would have "provide\[d\] funding for federal government operations through April 28, 2017, at an annualized discretionary rate of \$1.07 trillion. The measure also would \[have\] provide\[d\] \$170 million in response to the lead-contaminated drinking water system in Flint, Mich., including \$100 million in capitalization grants for EPA's Drinking Water State Revolving Fund that the city could use to repair its drinking water infrastructure. It also would \[have\] provide\[d\] \$872 million for medical research and anti-opioid addiction grants and would \[have\] transfer\[ed\] a net \$45 million to support extending health benefits for retired coal miners for four months. It would \[have\] provide\[d\] \$10.1 billion in additional Overseas Contingency Operations funds for the Defense Department and certain other security-related accounts. The measure also would \[have\] provide\[d\] for expedited Senate consideration of legislation that would exempt President-elect Donald Trump's pick for Defense secretary, retired Marine Corps Gen. James Mattis, from a requirement for seven years to have passed before retired military officers can be the Pentagon chief." The House agreed to the motion by a vote of 326 to 96 and the Senate later did, sending the bill to President Obama, who signed it into law. \[House Vote 620, [12/8/16](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2016/roll620.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [12/9/16](http://cq.com/vote/2016/S/161?8); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 2028](https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th-congress/house-bill/2028/all-actions)\]

-   **December 2016: New York City Formally Requested \$35 Million For Security Reimbursements For Securing Trump Tower Through Inauguration.** According to the New York Times, "New York City on Monday formally asked that the federal government reimburse it for the cost of providing security for President-elect Donald J. Trump at his New York home and offices, a figure that officials estimated would reach \$35 million by the time of Mr. Trump's inauguration on Jan 20. The \$35 million figure is based on roughly \$500,000 a day in security costs for the period from the presidential election through Inauguration Day, when Mr. Trump, a Republican, is expected to move to Washington, Mayor Bill de Blasio said at a news conference on Monday that was unrelated to the request." \[New York Times, [12/5/16](http://www.nytimes.com/2016/12/05/nyregion/new-york-reimburse-trump-security-costs.html)\]

-   **Rep. Nita Lowey (D-NY) Noted That The CR Only Funded 1/5 Of The Requested Security Reimbursement.** According to Congressional Quarterly, "Rep. Nita M. Lowey, the top Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee, praised the stopgap for including additional funding for water infrastructure, natural disasters, biomedical research, and to 'respond to threats abroad,' according to a statement. But Lowey slammed the legislation for skimping on funding increased security in New York for Trump, and said the \$7 million level provided was \"one-fifth of the amount requested by the Administration and by New York City." Overall, she blasted Republicans for the need for another stopgap. \[Congressional Quarterly, [12/6/16](http://www.cq.com/doc/news-4999780?1&srcpage=news&srcsec=cqn)\]