---
title: Science, Research, and Innovation Policy
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-05-04T20:44:25.503Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-05-04T20:44:21.767Z
---

# Science, Research, and Innovation Policy

### Summary

-   U.S. Rep. Anna Paulina Luna has strongly advocated for relocating NASA's headquarters from Washington, D.C. to Florida's Space Coast, citing significant strategic, economic, and logistical benefits for the agency and the nation ([Islander News](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6DYR-T033-RSBM-J2CN-00000-00&context=1519360), [Florida Today](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3F-D9H3-S2CN-X0K8-00000-00&context=1519360)).

-   Luna argues that Florida's strong military and private aerospace presence---including facilities like Kennedy Space Center and companies such as SpaceX, Blue Origin, and Boeing---makes it uniquely positioned for NASA operations ([Palm Beach Post](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3V-WD43-RX93-M1MY-00000-00&context=1519360), [News-Press](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3M-WWK3-S1XN-G3PX-00000-00&context=1519360)).

-   She emphasizes that co-locating NASA with the U.S. Space Force in Florida would enable closer collaboration on satellite technology, national security space efforts, and advanced exploration projects, as well as sharing resources and improving efficiency ([Ocala Star Banner](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3V-WD43-RX93-M26J-00000-00&context=1519360), [Herald-Tribune](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F42-VHG3-RV0C-Y06G-00000-00&context=1519360)).

-   Luna has also called for greater transparency in science-related government activities, demanding access to classified documents on unidentified aerial phenomena (UFOs) and criticizing overclassification by intelligence agencies ([Tampa Bay Times](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:69S6-63N1-JCBJ-Y0KV-00000-00&context=1519360), [Palm Beach Post](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:69SF-MM31-DXGX-61KC-00000-00&context=1519360)).

-   In 2025, Luna led congressional efforts to declassify JFK assassination records, preparing hearings with high-profile witnesses to address longstanding transparency concerns ([Fox News, Jesse Watters Primetime](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6FFD-P9K3-S1C1-70JM-00000-00&context=1519360)).

### Space, Defense, and Federal Science Agencies

#### Support for NASA-Space Force Cooperation

**January 2025: U.S. Rep. Anna Paulina Luna Urged Trump To Move NASA Headquarters To Florida** According to Islander News, "Pinellas County Republican U.S. Rep. Anna Paulina Luna has written a letter urging President Donald Trump to consider moving NASA's headquarters from Washington, D.C. to Florida's Space Coast. Luna argues the move would offer 'significant strategic, economic, and logistical advantages to NASA and the United States.'" \[Islander News, [1/23/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6DYR-T033-RSBM-J2CN-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Luna Cited Military And Industry Presence As Rationale For NASA Relocation** According to Islander News, "The representative \[...\] writes that the Space Coast is not only home to government facilities such as the Kennedy Space Center, but now also houses private space industry companies like SpaceX, Blue Origin, and Boeing. 'Additionally, the presence of the U.S. Space Force in Florida presents a unique opportunity for NASA to collaborate more closely with military space operations,' she writes." \[Islander News, [1/23/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6DYR-T033-RSBM-J2CN-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Luna Proposed Closer NASA And Space Force Collaboration** According to Islander News, "'Such proximity would enhance coordination on key projects like satellite technology, national space initiatives, and advanced space exploration missions. By co-locating NASA with the Space Force, the two agencies could share resources, streamline operations, and increase efficiency in both military and civilian space programs.'" \[Islander News, [1/23/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6DYR-T033-RSBM-J2CN-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Anna Paulina Luna Supported Relocation Of NASA Headquarters To Florida** According to Florida Today, "U.S. Rep. Anna Paulina Luna, R-St. Petersburg, wrote a Jan. 22 letter to Trump supporting the relocation of NASA's headquarters to Florida's Space Coast. Writing the move 'would offer significant strategic, economic, and logistical advantages to NASA and the United States,' Luna cited major private space industry players like SpaceX, Blue Origin and Boeing." \[Florida Today, [2/10/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3F-D9H3-S2CN-X0K8-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Anna Paulina Luna Cited Space Force Collaboration As Advantage Of NASA Move** According to Florida Today, "Additionally, the presence of the U.S. Space Force in Florida presents a unique opportunity for NASA to collaborate more closely with military space operations. Such proximity would enhance coordination on key projects like satellite technology, national security space initiatives, and advanced space exploration missions," Luna's letter said. \[Florida Today, [2/10/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3F-D9H3-S2CN-X0K8-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Anna Paulina Luna Advocated Resource Sharing Between NASA And Space Force** According to Florida Today, "By co-locating NASA with the Space Force, the two agencies could share resources, streamline operations, and increase efficiency in both military and civilian space programs," the \[Luna\] letter said. \[Florida Today, [2/10/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3F-D9H3-S2CN-X0K8-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Anna Paulina Luna Supported Moving NASA Headquarters To Florida** According to Palm Beach Post, "U.S. Rep. Anna Paulina Luna, R-St. Petersburg, wrote a Jan. 22 letter to Trump supporting the relocation of NASA's headquarters to Florida's Space Coast. Writing the move 'would offer significant strategic, economic, and logistical advantages to NASA and the United States,' Luna cited major private space industry players like SpaceX, Blue Origin and Boeing." \[Palm Beach Post (Florida), [2/11/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3V-WD43-RX93-M1MY-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Anna Paulina Luna Advocated For NASA-Space Force Collaboration In Florida** According to Palm Beach Post, "Additionally, the presence of the U.S. Space Force in Florida presents a unique opportunity for NASA to collaborate more closely with military space operations. Such proximity would enhance coordination on key projects like satellite technology, national security space initiatives, and advanced space exploration missions," Luna's letter said. \[Palm Beach Post (Florida), [2/11/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3V-WD43-RX93-M1MY-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Anna Paulina Luna Proposed Co-Locating NASA And Space Force To Improve Efficiency** According to Palm Beach Post, "By co-locating NASA with the Space Force, the two agencies could share resources, streamline operations, and increase efficiency in both military and civilian space programs," the letter said. \[Palm Beach Post (Florida), [2/11/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3V-WD43-RX93-M1MY-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Anna Paulina Luna Advocated NASA HQ Relocation To Florida In Letter To Trump** According to News-Press, "U.S. Rep. Anna Paulina Luna, R-St. Petersburg, wrote a Jan. 22 letter to Trump supporting the relocation of NASA's headquarters to Florida's Space Coast. Writing the move 'would offer significant strategic, economic, and logistical advantages to NASA and the United States,' Luna cited major private space industry players like SpaceX, Blue Origin and Boeing." \[News-Press, [2/11/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3M-WWK3-S1XN-G3PX-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Luna Highlighted Benefits Of Closer NASA-Space Force Cooperation In Florida** According to News-Press, "'Additionally, the presence of the U.S. Space Force in Florida presents a unique opportunity for NASA to collaborate more closely with military space operations. Such proximity would enhance coordination on key projects like satellite technology, national security space initiatives, and advanced space exploration missions,' Luna's letter said. 'By co-locating NASA with the Space Force, the two agencies could share resources, streamline operations, and increase efficiency in both military and civilian space programs.'" \[News-Press, [2/11/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3M-WWK3-S1XN-G3PX-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Anna Paulina Luna Supported Moving NASA HQ To Florida** According to Naples Daily News (Florida), "U.S. Rep. Anna Paulina Luna, R-St. Petersburg, wrote a Jan. 22 letter to Trump supporting the relocation of NASA's headquarters to Florida's Space Coast. Writing the move 'would offer significant strategic, economic, and logistical advantages to NASA and the United States,' Luna cited major private space industry players like SpaceX, Blue Origin and Boeing." \[Naples Daily News (Florida), [2/11/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3V-WD43-RX93-M3C7-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Luna Cited Collaboration With U.S. Space Force As An Advantage To Moving NASA HQ** According to Naples Daily News (Florida), "Additionally, the presence of the U.S. Space Force in Florida presents a unique opportunity for NASA to collaborate more closely with military space operations. Such proximity would enhance coordination on key projects like satellite technology, national security space initiatives, and advanced space exploration missions, Luna's letter said. 'By co-locating NASA with the Space Force, the two agencies could share resources, streamline operations, and increase efficiency in both military and civilian space programs.'" \[Naples Daily News (Florida), [2/11/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3V-WD43-RX93-M3C7-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Anna Paulina Luna Supported Relocating NASA Headquarters To Florida** According to Ocala Star Banner, "U.S. Rep. Anna Paulina Luna, R-St. Petersburg, wrote a Jan. 22 letter to Trump supporting the relocation of NASA's headquarters to Florida's Space Coast. Writing the move 'would offer significant strategic, economic, and logistical advantages to NASA and the United States,' Luna cited major private space industry players like SpaceX, Blue Origin and Boeing." \[Ocala Star Banner, [2/11/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3V-WD43-RX93-M26J-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Luna Highlighted Space Force Collaboration As Benefit Of NASA Move** According to Ocala Star Banner, "'Additionally, the presence of the U.S. Space Force in Florida presents a unique opportunity for NASA to collaborate more closely with military space operations. Such proximity would enhance coordination on key projects like satellite technology, national security space initiatives, and advanced space exploration missions,' Luna's letter said. 'By co-locating NASA with the Space Force, the two agencies could share resources, streamline operations, and increase efficiency in both military and civilian space programs,' the letter said." \[Ocala Star Banner, [2/11/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3V-WD43-RX93-M26J-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Anna Paulina Luna Supported NASA HQ Relocation To Florida In A Letter To Donald Trump** According to The Gainesville Sun (Florida), "U.S. Rep. Anna Paulina Luna, R-St. Petersburg, wrote a Jan. 22 letter to Trump supporting the relocation of NASA's headquarters to Florida's Space Coast. Writing the move 'would offer significant strategic, economic, and logistical advantages to NASA and the United States,' Luna cited major private space industry players like SpaceX, Blue Origin and Boeing." \[Gainesville Sun (Florida), [2/11/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3V-WD43-RX93-M237-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Anna Paulina Luna Advocated For NASA And Space Force Collaboration Through Co-location** According to The Gainesville Sun (Florida), "'Additionally, the presence of the U.S. Space Force in Florida presents a unique opportunity for NASA to collaborate more closely with military space operations. Such proximity would enhance coordination on key projects like satellite technology, national security space initiatives, and advanced space exploration missions,' Luna's letter said. 'By co-locating NASA with the Space Force, the two agencies could share resources, streamline operations, and increase efficiency in both military and civilian space programs,' the letter said." \[Gainesville Sun (Florida), [2/11/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3V-WD43-RX93-M237-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**January 2025: Anna Paulina Luna Supported Moving NASA Headquarters To Florida** According to The Stuart News, "U.S. Rep. Anna Paulina Luna, R-St. Petersburg, wrote a Jan. 22 letter to Trump supporting the relocation of NASA's headquarters to Florida's Space Coast. Writing the move 'would offer significant strategic, economic, and logistical advantages to NASA and the United States,' Luna cited major private space industry players like SpaceX, Blue Origin and Boeing." \[Stuart News, [2/12/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3V-WC73-RWRD-S4CV-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**Anna Paulina Luna 2025: Advocated For Collaboration Between NASA And U.S. Space Force In Florida** According to The Stuart News, "'Additionally, the presence of the U.S. Space Force in Florida presents a unique opportunity for NASA to collaborate more closely with military space operations. Such proximity would enhance coordination on key projects like satellite technology, national security space initiatives, and advanced space exploration missions,' Luna's letter said." \[Stuart News, [2/12/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F3V-WC73-RWRD-S4CV-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**1/22/25: Luna Supported Relocating NASA HQ To Florida** According to Herald-Tribune (Florida), "U.S. Rep. Anna Paulina Luna, R-St. Petersburg, wrote a Jan. 22 letter to Trump supporting the relocation of NASA's headquarters to Florida's Space Coast. Writing the move 'would offer significant strategic, economic, and logistical advantages to NASA and the United States,' Luna cited major private space industry players like SpaceX, Blue Origin and Boeing." \[Herald-Tribune (Florida), [2/13/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F42-VHG3-RV0C-Y06G-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**1/22/25: Luna Argued NASA-Space Force Proximity Would Enhance Collaboration** According to Herald-Tribune (Florida), "'Additionally, the presence of the U.S. Space Force in Florida presents a unique opportunity for NASA to collaborate more closely with military space operations. Such proximity would enhance coordination on key projects like satellite technology, national security space initiatives, and advanced space exploration missions,' Luna's letter said." \[Herald-Tribune (Florida), [2/13/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F42-VHG3-RV0C-Y06G-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**1/22/25: Luna Asserted Co-location Of NASA-Space Force Could Improve Efficiency** According to Herald-Tribune (Florida), "'By co-locating NASA with the Space Force, the two agencies could share resources, streamline operations, and increase efficiency in both military and civilian space programs,' the letter said." \[Herald-Tribune (Florida), [2/13/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6F42-VHG3-RV0C-Y06G-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

### Legislation and Oversight on Science Issues

#### Transparency in Government Science Records (e.g., JFK Files)

**April 2025: Luna Prepared To Hold Hearing On JFK Declassification With Oliver Stone and Jeff Morley As Witnesses** According to Fox News, JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME, Anna Paulina Luna stated, "We actually have our hearing coming up on April 1st. That is not April Fool's Day. That's when the hearing is going to be and we actually just confirmed today that the director, Oliver Stone will be testifying at that hearing, as well as Jeff Morley and a few other people." \[Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME, [3/28/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6FFD-P9K3-S1C1-70JM-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**March 2025: Luna Praised Trump For Declassifying JFK Files** According to Fox News, JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME, Anna Paulina Luna stated, "kudos to President Trump for following through on his campaign promise to fully declassify but look, Jesse, we need to ensure that the American people deserve the truth, get down to the facts of what actually happened." \[Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME, [3/28/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6FFD-P9K3-S1C1-70JM-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**March 2025: Luna Criticized The Warren Commission's JFK Assassination Findings** According to Fox News, JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME, Anna Paulina Luna stated, "I do believe that the Warren Commission never did the American people the facts. And so we have those. We're excited to present them to the American people, and there's more to come on that." \[Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME, [3/28/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6FFD-P9K3-S1C1-70JM-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**March 2025: Luna Confirmed Investigating Unreleased JFK Assassination Documents** According to Fox News, JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME, Anna Paulina Luna stated, "We're actually in the process of tracking down two specific documents and also, too, Jesse, I would like to actually tell the American people it was made aware to me this evening that NBC actually has a video that's never been seen before." \[Fox News JESSE WATTERS PRIMETIME, [3/28/25](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:6FFD-P9K3-S1C1-70JM-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**November 2023: Luna Demanded Access To Classified UFO Documents** According to Tampa Bay Times, "U.S. Rep. Anna Paulina Luna and a bipartisan group of lawmakers are demanding federal officials provide more information about unidentified flying objects. \[...\] Luna said federal officials have refused to allow them to see classified documents on UFOs, also known as unidentified aerial phenomena, despite whistleblowers coming forward with information claiming that the government has recovered such objects." \[Tampa Bay Times, [11/30/23](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:69S6-63N1-JCBJ-Y0KV-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**November 2023: Luna Criticized Denial Of Classified Clearance For Congress On UFOs** According to Tampa Bay Times, 'It has become very clear and evident that there is an apparent attempt - an orchestrated attempt - to deny us this access,' Luna said. \[Tampa Bay Times, [11/30/23](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:69S6-63N1-JCBJ-Y0KV-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**December 2023: Anna Paulina Luna Called For UAP Transparency And Criticized Intelligence Community** According to Palm Beach Post, "'In my short time in office, it has become very clear and evident that there is an orchestrated attempt to deny this access, and it appears that that is coming from the intelligence community,' Luna said. 'We have a rampant overclassification problem. We need the UAP Disclosure Act.'" \[Palm Beach Post, [12/2/23](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:69SF-MM31-DXGX-61KC-00000-00&context=1519360)\]

**December 2023: Anna Paulina Luna Participated In A Bipartisan Press Conference On UAP Disclosure** According to Palm Beach Post, "A small group of lawmakers that include Florida Republicans Matt Gaetz, Anna Paulina Luna and Democrat Jared Moskowitz called for Congress to force the government to be more transparent about unidentified aerial phenomena (UAP), also known as unidentified flying objects (UFOs)." \[Palm Beach Post, [12/2/23](https://advance.lexis.com/api/document?collection=news&id=urn:contentItem:69SF-MM31-DXGX-61KC-00000-00&context=1519360)\]