---
title: Chris Carr Would Allow Trump To Deploy The National Guard Against Georgians
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-12-22T16:53:16.499Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-12-17T16:01:24.617Z
---

## Overview

Carr [defended Trump](https://www.atlantanewsfirst.com/2025/06/11/georgias-chris-carr-25-attorneys-general-supporting-presidents-national-guard-deployment/) against accusations of overstepping his authority as Trump deployed the National Guard in American cities and ordered attacks on suspected “narco-terrorists” in the Caribbean. 

Carr [praised](https://www.atlantanewsfirst.com/2025/06/11/georgias-chris-carr-25-attorneys-general-supporting-presidents-national-guard-deployment/) Trump’s decision to deploy the National Guard against protesters in California, and criticized other state’s governors that resisted Trump’s [“crack down on crime.”](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/chris-carr-the-austin-rhodes-show-10825/s-3cqLU4BeaIV?si=c0fdf1400df243379a71aac81c3251f3&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing) Carr even [argued](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/chris-carr-the-morning-xtra-61225/s-LGx30fGDfct?si=bb1b33c78b654781baa8f0d1b114d4a6&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing) that Trump had the legal authority to do so under the Militia Act of 1908 and the Insurrection Act. 

Carr also [defended](https://youtu.be/_p-YKtXMo-8) Trump’s authority to attack suspected “drug boats” without cause, but argued that, if Trump did not already have the legal authority, Congress should just give it to him. 

## Carr Would Allow Trump To Overstep His Authority And Deploy The National Guard Against Georgians

### Carr Praised Trump Deploying The National Guard In California And Supported Kemp Sending The National Guard To DC

**June 2025: Carr Praised Trump For Deploying The National Guard In California Against Protesters, Saying It “Was The Right Response, And One We Fully Support.”** According to Atlanta News First, “‘Over the weekend, violent agitators rioted in the streets of California under the false banner of protest,’ Carr said. ‘President Trump’s decision to deploy the National Guard was the right response, and one we fully support. ‘We will always defend the right to peacefully protest, but there’s nothing peaceful about arson, assault and anarchy,’ Carr said. ‘If you set police cars on fire, throw Molotov cocktails at law enforcement, and loot businesses, you must be held accountable.’” \[Atlanta News First, [6/11/25](https://www.atlantanewsfirst.com/2025/06/11/georgias-chris-carr-25-attorneys-general-supporting-presidents-national-guard-deployment/)\]

**October 2025: Carr Supported Kemp’s Decision To Send Georgia National Guard Troops “To Washington To Support Trump’s Federal Intervention.”** According to The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, “Carr backed Gov. Brian Kemp’s decision to deploy more than 300 Georgia National Guard troops to Washington to support Trump’s federal intervention. But he doesn’t think Georgia needs a similar show of force at home, crediting bipartisan public safety cooperation in Atlanta. He also said the courts — not the president — should decide whether Trump has the authority to send troops into states that push back. ‘That’s why you have the court system,’ he said. ‘If it’s not legal, the court system will make that determination.’” \[Atlanta Journal-Constitution, [10/7/25](https://www.ajc.com/politics/2025/10/carr-strikes-different-tone-from-trump-loyalists-in-gop-governor-race/)\]

### Carr Criticized Mayors And Governors That Opposed The National Guard In Their Cities

**October 2025: Carr Supported Trump Deploying The National Guard In Cities To “Crack Down On Crime,” And Asked, “Why In The World Are These Mayors And Governors Fighting It.”** According to Carr on The Austin Rhodes Show, “Well, first of all, the federal government has one role. It's the defense of the nation. And immigration is part of that. We've actually filed several amicus briefs, and I think we've found another one today with some of our other colleagues to say that that, you know, you've got immigration, you've got the National Guard, you've got a lot of different issues that are dealing with public safety. The president absolutely has the authority to make sure that he is enforcing the laws of the country, of the United States. \[…\] And I think that the president turning and providing support to crack down on crime is absolutely appropriate, which is why we filed the friend of the court briefs there as well. Look at the folks in Washington, D.C. felt safer. Shootings down, crimes have gone down. The thing to me, though, is Austin, why in the world are these mayors and governors fighting it.” \[Chris Carr – The Austin Rhodes Show, [10/8/25](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/chris-carr-the-austin-rhodes-show-10825/s-3cqLU4BeaIV?si=c0fdf1400df243379a71aac81c3251f3&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing)\] (AUDIO)

### Carr Argued The Militia Act Of 1908 And The Insurrection Act Gave Trump The Authority To Deploy The National Guard

**June 2025: Carr Argued Trump Had The Authority To Deploy The National Guard In California Under The Militia Act Of 1908 And The Insurrection Act.** According to Carr on The Morning Xtra, “And I know that Newsom and Bonta, the attorney general, are going to be in court in San Francisco today talking about whether Trump's got the authority to do it. We've looked at it, and they're using the Militia Act of 1908. I think if you also look at the Insurrection Act, the president has the authority and the when there are groups gathering and you're blocking interstates, and why Newsom wouldn't have just accepted the president's assistance on the violence, and then he could encourage and defend and support the protests themselves, the peaceful protests, but I don't understand it because that's what governments supposed to do is keep people safe.” \[Chris Carr Interview – The Morning Xtra, [6/12/25](https://soundcloud.com/abpac/chris-carr-the-morning-xtra-61225/s-LGx30fGDfct?si=bb1b33c78b654781baa8f0d1b114d4a6&utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing)\] (AUDIO)

## Carr Supported Trump’s Attacks Against Suspected “Narco-Terrorists”

### Carr Said He Believed Trump Had The Authority To Attack Suspected “Drug Boats” Without Cause

**November 2025: Carr Said He Believed Trump Had The Authority To Attack Suspected “Drug Boats” Without Cause And, Even If Trump Did Not Have The Executive Authority, That Congress Should Give Him That Ability.** According to Carr on The Ben Burnett Show, “And the question has been, does the President of the United States have the ability to protect Americans by attacking those drug boats? And I believe he does. People said, oh, they don't have uniforms. It's not a declared war. Just because they don't wear uniform or detonate a bomb, they're detonating the equivalent of a bomb that has killed more people than were killed in Vietnam and Korea every year. And how do we look those parents in the eyes and say we're going to declare war on fentanyl? We see it coming across the border. And I'll give the president credit. What he has done to shut down the border is unbelievable. Absolutely remarkable. Human trafficking, gangs, fentanyl. Big issues that we have to deal with in state. And the left, it always drove them crazy when we'd say every state is a border state when you don't, right? But it is absolutely. But it is. And fentanyl, half the people that are dying from drug overdoses are under the age of 45. The other half are over because they're getting pills and they're having a surgery, whatever. But I believe the president does have the authority to protect Americans who are dying every day due to drug overdoses, and these drug dealers, cartels, organized crime folks know that. But if he doesn't, as a lawyer and rule of law guy, Congress should give this president or any president the ability to go after those that are intentionally killing Americans.” \[Chris Carr – The Ben Burnett Show, [11/3/25](https://youtu.be/_p-YKtXMo-8)\] (VIDEO)