---
title: Sub-Saharan African Nations
description: 
published: true
date: 2025-09-24T22:06:15.313Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2025-09-24T22:06:11.345Z
---

# Sub-Saharan African Nations

### Electricity

**2014: Schweikert Voted Against Requiring The Obama Administration To Develop A Multi-Year Strategy To Increase Access To Electricity In Sub-Saharan Africa.** In May 2014, Schweikert voted against legislation that would have required the administration within 180 to report to Congress a plan to develop a plan to increase access to electricity in sub-Saharan Africa, including utilizing renewable energy. According to Congressional Quarterly, the legislation would have "require\[d\] the administration to create a multi-year strategy to develop an appropriate mix of power solutions, including renewable energy, and to report to Congress within 180 days. It would \[have\] encourage\[d\] the U.S. Agency for International Development to prioritize loan guarantees and research grants that would facilitate power projects. The bill also would \[have\] require\[d\] the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC), the independent agency that works with private industry to finance investment in emerging markets, to prioritize investment in the sub-Saharan electricity sector and to expedite review of electricity projects in the region." The vote was on a motion to suspend the rules and pass the bill. The House agreed to the motion, passing the bill by a vote of 297 to 117. The Senate took no substantive action on the legislation. \[House Vote 208, [5/8/14](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2014/roll208.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [5/8/14](http://www.cq.com/doc/news-4473040?7); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 2548](https://www.congress.gov/bill/113th-congress/house-bill/2548/all-actions)\]

### Renew The Generalized System Of Preferences And Extend The African Growth And Opportunity Act

**2015: Schweikert Effectively Voted Against Renewing The Generalized System of Preferences And Extend The African Growth and Opportunity Act.** In June 2015, Schweikert effectively voted against providing a long-term extension of the African Growth and Opportunity Act and renewing the Generalized System of Preferences. According to Congressional Quarterly, the bill "extend\[ed\] Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) programs that help U.S. workers harmed by trade agreements until 2021 and the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) through FY 2025. The bill would also extend the HOPE and HELP programs for products from Haiti, retroactively renew and extend, through 2017, the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), strengthen U.S. anti-dumping law, and expand opportunities for U.S. businesses in recreational performance footwear and outerwear." The vote was on a motion to concur with the Senate amendment to the House amendment to the Senate amendment to the bill. Then House agreed to the motion by a vote of 286 to 138. The bill was then signed by the President. \[House Vote 388, [6/25/15](http://clerk.house.gov/evs/2015/roll388.xml); Congressional Quarterly, [6/25/15](http://www.cq.com/vote/2015/H/388?15); Congressional Actions, [H.R. 1295](https://www.congress.gov/bill/114th-congress/house-bill/1295/all-actions)\]

-   **The African Growth And Opportunity Act Was Extended For Ten Years And It Provides Incentives To Adopt Good Governance And Pro-Growth/Pro-Development Polices For Sub-Saharan Nations.** According to The White House, "For 15 years, the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA) has provided tangible economic benefits and opportunities to sub-Saharan Africa by helping African companies improve their competitiveness and invest in building a strong private sector. Also set to expire in September, today's bill extends AGOA for 10 years and reflects our shared values by providing incentives to adopt good governance and pro-growth/pro-development policies, including on workers' rights and human rights. The bill also gives the Administration the ability to withdraw, suspend, or limit benefits if designated AGOA countries do not comply with our eligibility criteria." \[The White House, [6/29/15](https://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2015/06/29/trade-here-s-what-president-signed-law)\]

-   **Legislation Also Expands The Government's Ability To Confront Trade Partners That "Dump" Steel And Other Products In The United States.** According to New York Times, "Beyond health care, education and retraining assistance to dislocated workers, the newly approved measure extends a popular trade agreement with much of sub-Saharan Africa and expands the government's ability to confront trade partners that 'dump' steel and other products in the United States at artificially low prices to drive American companies into bankruptcy." \[New York Times, [6/25/15](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/26/business/economy/house-approves-trade-bills-expansion-of-worker-aid.html)\]

-   **Bill Reauthorized The Generalized System Of Preferences, Which Eliminated Duties On Up To 5,000 Types Of Products When Imported From 122 Different Countries And Territories.** According to the Office of the United States Trade Representative, "U.S. trade preference programs such as the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) provide opportunities for many of the world's poorest countries to use trade to grow their economies and climb out of poverty. GSP is the largest and oldest U.S. trade preference program. Established by the Trade Act of 1974, GSP promotes economic development by eliminating duties on up to 5,000 types of products when imported from one of 122 designated beneficiary countries and territories. \[... \] Note: On June 29, 2015, the President signed the Trade Preferences Extension Act of 2015. Title II of the Act authorizes GSP through December 31, 2017 and makes GSP retroactive to July 31, 2013. As provided in the Act, duty-free treatment of GSP-eligible imports will become effective 30 days after enactment (July 29, 2015)." \[Office of the United States Trade Representative, [Accessed 8/24/15](https://ustr.gov/issue-areas/trade-development/preference-programs/generalized-system-preference-gsp)\]

-   **Because of Pro-Trade Democrats, Trade Adjustment Assistance Was Expanded, Including An Expansion Of A Tax Credit For The Purchase Of Health Insurance, For Their Support For 'Fast Track' Authority.** According to the New York Times, "Trade adjustment assistance programs have existed since the Kennedy administration, but pro-trade Democrats demanded a significant expansion as a price for their support for trade promotion authority, often known as 'fast track' approval. The bill extends assistance through June 2022, with an expansion of the program through June of 2021. That includes \$2.7 billion in funds for worker retraining and education, while making workers in service industries eligible for a program once reserved for out-of-work manufacturing workers. The bill extends and expands a tax credit for the purchase of health insurance, and it includes subsidies for the wages of workers 50 years of age or older forced to find lower-paid jobs than the ones they lost to international competition." \[New York Times, [6/25/15](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/06/26/business/economy/house-approves-trade-bills-expansion-of-worker-aid.html)\]